'“Boeing South Carolina teammates are producing the highest levels of quality in our history,” Kevin McAllister, Boeing’s head of commercial airplanes, said in a statement.'

Class: which word reeks the most? Teammates, correct. You all got it.Phew. I've been reading so many of these illuminating comments. I wonder why we don't see anonymous comments from current commercial airline pilots on their experiences on flying and training on the 787s and on the aerodynamically unstable B737Max 8 & 9?Seems flying these days is like playing aerial Russian Roulette. Just hope that the defective part allowed into your flight doesn't cause a catastrophe. Lowering standards and using a sub par workforce for short term reasons will, in the long run destroy the company. I mean, no one will want to fly or buy their products because they keep CRASHING and KILLING people. Boeng either needs to have the highest safety standards possible or they deserve to go out of business. There is no third choice.Is it a coincidence that this happens in the wake of the production move from Seattle to North Carolina, i.e., from a state that is strongly pro-union to a “right to work” state?Regarding "Employees are supposed to clean the bowels of the aircraft as they work"... 

Sounds like they need to have more workers, and teams dedicated to cleaning up all the debris, shavings etc... as they go along... 

But that would cost more and lower profits, margins and shareholder returns for Wall Street and bonuses for management... (I guess)...Boeing planes fly thousands of times a day without incident.  The company has everything to lose whenever a plane malfunctions or crashes. It is not unaware of or unconcerned with passenger safety.  Constant articles like yours, questioning Boeing's essential integrity, threaten to drive the company out of business and create a panic among its customers.  Is the company perfect?  No.  Is Airbus?  No.  There is no perfection in this world, but that doesn't mean no one is aiming for it.My hunch is that one root of the recent tragedies is 
Boeing's decision to move its headquarters in 2001 to 
Chicago to be closer to the sources of contracts and politicians. The message or meta-message to employees about the move is that money and profits now take precedence over design and engineering. I share an old fashioned belief that CEOs need to manage by walking around. The Boeing CEO could not oversee design and production in Seattle from Chicago let alone another plant on the east coast.Just another sign in the slow death of America under a two party system trained by Jesuits.MAGA! I am waiting Trump's tariff response to this issue.
Another great piece of NYT reporting.
And, Yikes!Are the managers of the two planes that went down going to be prosecuted for manslaughter?I'm happy to know that the FAA is on top of things.Further proof that MBA bean counters, who know the price of everything and the value of nothing, should never be allowed to make any decision more important than whether or not to order Chinese takeout for lunch. The "MBA-ization" of America is responsible for 90% of the problems we have today in every business.

When Boeing was run by "airplane guys," they never allowed such fakakte as this article describes to happen.  They would have been ashamed to produce airplanes like these. For an MBA moron, the "profit" to be made in all the needed fixes is a "feature," not a "bug" because they have no understanding of what they're really doing. The same is true in any business where they've been allowed to proliferate.The commercial aviation industry (Airlines and manufacturing) is the only major industry no one have bothered to examine. Over a 35 year period,American commercial aircraft manufacturing went from three major suppliers to one and airlines disappeared in droves; millions of employees displaced and good paying  airline jobs going with them, replaced by minimum-wage contract work.

Who paid attention? No one- even though air travel is as necessary as automobile travel. Why didn't anyone notice or care? Simply put, air travel is  still thought of as a luxury rather than a vital component to this nation's economic well being.It's becoming embarrassing the situation inside Boeing. To resort to pressure to silence defective manufacturing is indeed revealing. It's like the whole process of competition around the world where the abuse of power is becoming the new normal, particularly by U.S.as a country whose world dominance is no more ensured. But the 'strategy' consisting in cheating or suppressing the opponent is indicative of weakness if not squarely of decadence.This is why government regulations are so important. There should be far more government inspectors involved in the design and manufacturing processes.Boeing has allowed outside "bean-counter analysts" to tell them how to build an airplane.So sick and tired of corporations only caring about profits and here they are risking our very lives. These plane crashes were entirely predictable and Boeing's CEO and other top management should go. If you hire non-union, unskilled labor who probably also consider cleaning up metal shavings after themselves to be 'women's work,' what do they expect?This frightening article brought back some bad memories of my 40 years in the industrial building trades.  When I was a field manager we would have to implement many schedules and budgets that we experienced field personnel knew were fantasies.  But the corporate drill always continued, with high level management pushing incessantly against the hard realities of actually building something.
It also reminds me of one the most important facts unearthed in the investigations into the crashes of the 737 Max jet.  One of the management directives in the 737 Max redesign was that it should not cause the airlines to require additional simulator training.  This reveals that Boeing management has a mania about cost control that has brought the whole company to the edge of financial disaster.  This extends, obviously, to their work force, and relocation to an area where there "...was no work force comparable to the generations of aerospace professionals the company had nurtured in the Seattle area."
And, of course the new Boeing wants a "pool of nonunion workers."  This, imo, is not just about lower personnel costs.  It is about depriving workers of power, and basic workplace independence.  The last thing the new Boeing wants is a pool of professional aircraft manufacturing workers  who will stand up to management--in the board room and the factory floor--about cost and schedule when they inevitably conflict with actually building a product that has to work, every single time.The next time I fly on a piece of Boeing equipment, I will be looking for the "Union Label".If production is fine at the South Carolina plant, repeatedly firing whistleblowers strikes me as a poor way to confirm it."The heart will still be beating and the employees will still be cowering." 
A proud quote from X soap seller and Boeing CEO McNerney [2005-2015]  when asked if he planned to retire which might relate to  Boeing "culture" noted is this article. 
Just a guess, but I bet producing high quality airplanes requires a highly skilled workforce cultivated over decades. 
McNerney's tactic of reducing aerospace engineers to "cowering" produced the 737 and Max debacle. 
Short term profits, long term disaster.We need to make a distinction between design vs mfg flaw. The MCAS problems that caused the recent crashes are most likely design and/or procedural flaws. The problems cited in this article appear mfg. process/quality control issues. 
Also may point out a cultural issue: Seattle vs the South where quality is not always on front burner.Is there no employee training, and where are the supervisors and a sense of accountability up and down the production line? It seems there is a lack of pride in work and workplace. If you haven’t put away all materials and tools or left your workplace cleaner than you found it, you don’t understand the job. This is both an executive leadership and worker problem!As a retiree of nearly 30 years in the airline industry, I can tell you that "safety over profit" does NOT exist until there is a fatality or law suit. The CEOs, all hot shots with an MBA, are only concerned with  numbers. Safety, personnel, quality control,... are all a drag on the bottom line. We were constantly under scrutiny for log book entries and dispatched with "legal" but questionable discrepancies. It's all about the bucks, NOT safety!Priority one Boeing will hire spin gurus, intimidate whistle blowers and lie, as they try to suppress bad publicity.  Maybe, they will clean up the production problems too.So when I go to Europe this September, instead of flying Norwegian with their 787's I guess I'll use Icelandair and pay more (their fleet is all older Boeings made in Seattle) or Delta which uses Airbus aircraft and pay much much more. 
I agree with the comments about American capitalism run amok but I fear it's way too late to stop.
(Full disclosure I'm a flight instructor.)It's time for Dennis Muilenburg to resign. Clearly Boeing has been prioritizing profit over safety under the current leadership team. This might not just Dennis, his predecessors all are responsible as safety issues don't happen overnight.Sure hope no one is surprised at this article.  It's the "American way."  Almost everything that is made is made with one goal:  maximize profits!!  A few metal shavings, a beer can hidden away, poor paint, etc., etc..... what's to worry about?  The stockholders want to see the stock going up and any way this can be done is fine with them.  The Law of Diminishing Returns is at work and is catching up to us.After this superb reporting by The Times, we now know another reason why a far-right, business-first deregulator like Trump wants to destroy the free press.Silly me, I would've thought an airplane manufacturer -- indeed, the premier manufacturer -- would be the one entity that would not want ever to cut corners in how its planes are put together. But it looks like Boeing would prefer to make obscene profits, rather than 'merely' robust profits, even it lives, human lives, are put at considerably grave risk.  And I also would've thought this would be the one entity to encourage complaints from any employees who detected sloppiness, or worse, in the manufacturing process -- but here again, they appear to have been marginalized and punished if they dared speak out.  Sickening. And very very scary.  I for one will never fly a 737 Max, or 787 Dreamliner.Are there any honest executives anymore.I'll avoid flying Boeing planes as much as possible.The corrupt culture of "money is all that matters" has permeated every vein of the American society and Boeing's methods display it vividly. For profits anything goes, never mind future costs.

The attitude of the supporters of Mr. Trump and Republicans is exhibit A of this corrupt culture. They say they will put up with any manner of unethical or criminal behavior of the President as long as the economy is doing well.If it's not Airbus, I'm not going... Even if it doesn't rhymeI’m wondering if there is a way for the flying public to find out which planes are manufactured in EverettThis is of very little concern as AOCs Green New Deal has us not needing airplanes in a dozen years anyway...Even one minor concern about the safety of planes should be taken extremely seriouslyboing also moved production to China from wichita, where there has been a large pool of skilled and unionized (SPEA) aviation technicians since the second world war.Boeing needs to recognize that they get what they pay for in cheap untrained labor in NC.  Getting rid of QC personnel is criminal.I'm shorting Boing in the morning. I suggest every other investor do the same. No more upside to this behemoth.Complex tasks require educated, dedicated workers with organized, knowledgeable supervisors.  Bodies, even wearing MAGA hats will not suffice.

That is why complex technologies, health care, information technology are all suffering in the U.S., and when they do remain - as health care must - the workforce is highly penetrated by immigrant populations.

The U.S. has labored under the myth that the balance sheet is more important that the knowledge base, which guarantees shoddy products and wealthy CEOs.  And now we are lead by the paragon of "businessmen".A year ago I had my first (still only) flight on a 787. It was AirFrance, and they had just introduced it on the Paris-Boston route. They had to move me from my first-row premium economy seat, where I had looked forward to having no seat in front of me, because the leg-rest on this virtually brand-new plane was broken, stuck in a partially open position. I thought that was odd and annoying, but hadn't thought about it again, until I read this article today.Old fashioned engineering, old fashioned worl conditions, old fashioned labor conceptions lead to failures like in the rest of the US society.
An Airbus is built with much more modern engineering , more modern work conditions and labour laws.
Airbus workers have 5 weeks paid vacation per year, free health care, free higher education for their children .free university studies, they work 35 hours a week and produce more per capita than in the USA .If airlines and plane manufacturers don't recognize that safety is their most important product, I can't see how they will survive. 

People ultimately will not fly in death traps.This makes me adverse to flying on Boeing commercial aircraft.  Not that I have a choice, the airlines decide what equipment to use, but if I have a choice I will shun Boeing.He should have led Boeing, maybe we can entice, Alan Mullaly to become President of the USA. We're going to need someone with ethics and intelligence to lead a massive turnaround of our Country. I'm sure his experience at Ford was a great training ground.The 737 story is simply that management decided to take a huge risk after Lion Air even though they knew MCAS was fatally flawed.  Boeing’s senior management has long been bent by insane arrogance.  The 767 scandal and the 787 production / battery issue handling were absolutely egregious false communications by top management.  Boeing is a great company that builds great products that has a real credibility issue at the top.  Richly deserved.  Even so, it is an exaggeration to suggest their products are generally unsafe.  They are not.  The issues are specific to individual people.Does the bear go to the bathroom in the woods? Is Boeing willing to sacrifice the safety of their product to maximize profit?”: two questions with a clear and resounding answer: YES. And that is the essential flaw of capitalism, except the bears.I think it's worth pointing out that While 787's are built both in Seattle and North Carolina, the 737 MAX is assembled only in Renton WA, and completed 737 fuselages are built in Witicha KS.This is an important article, providing insight into the management approach of Boeing executives, profits over people.  I also wonder how much the FAA is doing on this score.  If quality managers are getting fired for reporting safety issues, then that becomes a safety issue and the FAA has to investigate.  Obviously, change is needed at Boeing.  In the rush to make big bucks the CEO and his executives are willing to sacrifice the safety of the flying public.  If a quality manager reports a problem he/she should be listened to not fired for doing his/her job.  Under no circumstances should quality and safety be sacrificed for profits.  The lives of the flying public depend on planes that are made to the highest quality standards.This article is very typical of where the NYT has gone. Big on innuendo and assertions, short on facts.  It is based on an Al Jazera report several years ago which was full ominous statements of "I'd never fly that plane."  
The FAA keeps excellent statistics on every type of aircraft incident, literally down the the toilet paper. (Yep the TP is on the MEL, an Air Canada flight was recently  held from  takeoff because of this).
Where are the reports of manufacturing defects causing issues? Why did the NYT not research this, or did they. Why just rely on an outdated AJ video. 
There has never been a 787 hull loss or fatality so you can't  improve on that safety record. Airlines keep buying the planes, do you think they would if they had issues? 
There is a lot about Boeing that has headed south since the they purchased McD. The 787 was a program management disaster of epic proportions and Boeing has  stated they will not go that route (using an extensive network of subs to design and build major assemblies) again.
Boeing clearly has issues but I would be the vast majority of commenters on here have never built a thing in their life."Regulators and lawmakers are taking a deeper look at Boeing’s priorities, and whether profits sometimes trumped safety. "

Gosh, ya think???  Color me unsurprised...I hate to break to the flying community but ALL airplanes will have some debris created during production.  From Cessnas to the F-117 and probably the space shuttle, it is virtually impossible not to have debris found inside airlines.   

This is nothing new.  From the earliest aircraft, and my husband has worked on them, debris has been found inside aircraft.   Maintenance, exposure to weather and use can create even more debris inside an airplane.  

Mechanics are trained and the FAA requires that debris be cleaned when found.   It's been like this for 110 years.

There is probably some statistics that shows how many air crashes caused by unwanted things in airframes.   I'm fairly sure, even with my unnerving claims that it's very low.

The airplane is built only once.  Maintenance occurs upwards of hundreds of times during an aircraft's life.   You can thank penny-pinching airplanes and permissive FAA to allow non-FAA-rated mechanics to do work under a FAA-certified manager, often done at third-party maintenance facilities all of which are pressured to make a profit.   

One day, ignorance, carelessness or a combination of these things will factor into a future crash.   Imagine, debris is just one thing among thousands of potential problems.

But, hey, commercial flying for U.S. carriers have enjoyed a great recent safety record.  

But, hey, one loss will still make a good safety record.

The FAA is running on borrowed time at the peoples' expense.Profit first, security second. Are we supposed to be surprised?Poor quality in US manufacturing.  Go figure.Perhaps this was always the way that Boeing was, yet I find that very hard to believe.  And perhaps, at least to me, even harder and sadder to believe than Boeing's unsafe, unprofessional and unethical behavior was its CEO call to Trump asking him to look the other way.  How far and high Boeing has come since its founder put his name on its wings and how steep and low its decline has fallen is truly sad.Rampant corporate greed and ludicrous GOP deregulation has allowed the kind of corner cutting that could ruin Boeing...  Until Boeing proves to billions of annual travelers that it has returned to sound business practices (including first rate safety standards), it might be a good time to invest in (and demand to fly in) Airbus.What, safety!?
What about shareholder value!?
ROI is what matters!
And not next year, but next month!Safety standards are almost always written in blood.  First people die; then the rules are written.  Even, regrettably, at Boeing.Of course it’s shoddy. It’s American made.I am sure this has nothing to with the fact that South Carolina is a right to work state.  Just like that explosion in a plant in Texas had nothing to do with lack of and hatred of regulations at the state level.There are three ways to make it:  fast, good and cheap. Pick any two.Capitalism corrupts.I guess they have become just like the U.S. car manufacturers. I made a big mistake a few years ago and bought a Chrysler product. I remember reading the owners manual. There was a line that stated that I had bought the finest automobile made. Well that pile of garbage was in the shop just about every month for some kind of repair. The same thing will happen to Boeing. In its insatiable journey towards profits, it will build shoddy planes that will fail. The executives will lie and the public will lose confidence in the product. That will be it's death knell.The writers raise more questions than they answer. Up to a point that is normal. The quotes are from workers and worker and management retirees. There is a lack of defense from the online management theoretically responsible. Not clear how hard the reporters pushed Boeing management.
There have been continuing labor issues in South Carolina.  Do the complaints cross path as they often do with labor management issues.?Credibility on both sides is left hanging. 
The writers undercut their most draconian images by underplaying or omitting important facts. The 787 in it's 8 and 9 variants have thus far been reliable, average teething problems (the battery issues aside that had nothing to do the airframe). Where which variant is built is never made clear. 
Others who built airplanes point out that detritus lying around, forgotten tools and similar anomalies are not dreaded safety issues. How often do surgeons leave a tool behind inside the body?
Mistakes at Boeing that led to the current MAX grounding legitimately raise issues in journalism: let's look at Boeing's practices on the other main productions lines. This "investigation" leaves a lot to be desired between innuendo and legitimate concerns.Why did it take over 300 deaths to bring public and regulatory attention to shoddy production?When I worked for an aerospace company  in the 80's quality
was king, the workers were unionized , and the FAA did their
job. However things have obviously changed based on your 
excellent report. Citizens united, the rise of cooperate power, cheap inexperienced labor,the rush for profits over quality,
and the deregulation of the FAA. Unfortunately real people were 
killed when the 2 max 737's crashed.
lProfits trumping safety .... Hmmm. It’s hard to imagine such a thing in this current climate of “modern conservative” (aka: radical reactionary) thought, isn’t it? Quite obviously, I jest. 

These so called “unfettered free market” proponents have an abiding and utterly blind faith in the almighty MARKET and it’s ability to make “adjustments” without having the onerous burden of government regulations to deal with. And you know, they do have a point. 

The MARKET for Boeing is “adjusting” right now. Ah, but at what cost? Hundreds of deaths finally get the attention of the media and responsible politicians (there are a few left in this nation). So, the MARKET begins to ponder the cost-benefit analyses of the effect of all those human lives cut short, squandered, horribly ended, and something begins to get done. Ta Da!

What could possibly work better? Surely not adherence to established safety rules and regulations that are enforced by an effectively trained and fully funded oversight arm of the government that has PUBLIC SAFETY as its number one priority. Surely not!There goes any idealistic view of the value and benefit of "Made in the USA". Boeing had an iconic and trusted brand, and ran it into the dirt to save a few pfennigs here and there JUST LIKE EVERY OTHER AMERICAN MANUFACTURER who values profit and pinching pennies over production of a solid and decent product.RE: "describing issues like defective manufacturing, debris left on planes"

So are these the result of sloppy working, like people complaining about the city not picking up the trash that they threw on the sidewalk, or the result of management not allowing them to time to clean up the debris or to correctly manufacture the piece and parts?Before this, I had not really paid much attention to what aircraft I was flying but you can be certain that I will from now on and so should everyone else.   Boeing is a national disgrace having allowed adherence to safety procedures to no longer be its top priority.In the 1960s Boeing was the primary contractor for NASA’s Lunar Orbiter program. I worked on this program and it was a great success: five orbital missions for five spacecraft sent to the Moon to scout for Apollo landing sites and survey the lunar surface. (See NASA’s “Destination Moon – A History of the Lunar Orbiter Program”, NASA TM X-3487). Boeing engineers and scientists worked closely with our Lunar Obiter planning and operations teams throughout.

Today, aviation industry faces new, difficult challenges in an ever more competitive market. Cultural and management environments have changed and our government seems no longer so interested in rigorous oversight. The spirit of the Apollo program seems to have long ago left us and our society seems trapped in ever more divisive conflict.

Millions depend much more these days on safe, regular air transportation than in the days of Lunar Orbiter and Apollo. Yet, the recent crashes of the Boeing 737 Max 8s show that a pervasive negligence and fatal assumptions among Boeing management have weakened one of our country’s leading aviation pioneers. The current administration appears also to favor more deregulation and lax oversight. 

It’s an old story (remember the O rings on the Space Shuttle Challenger's solid-fuel rockets). It shows again that the strength and reliability of human ingenuity is often undermined by management calculations of profit and loss. Loss of human life.Boeing management wants us to believe that the non-union labor environment they moved to Charleston to exploit is better than the unionized environment they dismantled.  Management will say anything to continue promoting that agenda.while the US car industry had finally caught up with Quality by Design principles, it seems the US aircraft industry is going the way of General Motors in 1970. 
where is the pride?My father spent his entire career as a structural engineer with Lockheed, starting in the late 1930’s when it was a small company in Burbank. He hated to fly because he understood what could go wrong. He rose to become a Vice President and the chief structural engineer for commercial aircraft; I learned his planes were among the safest in the air. If he had to fly, he flew in planes he had designed or overseen. When Lockheed submitted their bid for the SST, the last plane for which my father was chief structural engineer, Lockheed lost the bid because it’s production would be considerably more expensive than that of the winning one. I am not surprised the “winning” plane is no longer in the air — not safe. He also was hired to spend half his time with the Skunk Works though none of his four children knew this while he was alive. He had a storied career and would be shaking his head in dismay at the sloppiness that has been revealed. We have only to look at the trail that companies burn in their quest for profit over safetyUnions help to protect workers so that they can advocate when they see practices that they know are wrong. When workers don't have those protections they are less likely to stand up to management. Yes, Boeing increased profit by moving to non-union SC, but they also leveraged a workforce that would be less likely to slow down production to maintain high standards of safety and quality control.Unions, unions, unions ! We need them ! Not only in the aviation industry but throughout all service and manufacturing sectors. They protect not only their members, but the public at large. When are the American people going to understand that when profit trumps safety, ethics and shareholder greed, we have fail as a people and a nation. The employees of this plant should walk out today and not come back until they have strong union representation. I work as an adjunct at a state college in Florida. To date we have no union representation. As a result, our base salary is less than 20k per year, no benefits, no health insurance, no SS, no protection from adhoc firings or mistreatment. And we are expected to teach 'full load' schedules. Its exploitation at its worse. We need strong representation for the middle class. If we can't get it from our government, then unions need to do it for us. Union Strong ! That's how America will be great again !This looks like it’s either a union organizing drive or trial lawyers softening the jury for when they try Boeing on US soil for the MAX, or both. Someone is trying to pressure Boeing. These stories don’t just pop up...they are built, massaged, and planted. I’m sure Boeing can improve  (I’ve worked for airlines and aviation manufacturers...that context tells me that everyone can always improve) so I hope this helps on that front, but what’s going on here (and I’ve worked in public relations for labor and management) is a pressure campaign for some outcome, and the outcome is NOT about safety.I certainly am on board with bringing to light Boeing’s missteps.  This is serious.  I have confidence this is a come to Jesus moment for Boeing. What I find disconcerting in this article is the lack of any statistical data.  How many Boeing aircraft are delivered in perfect condition? How many flights of Boeing aircraft are problem free?  While yes they should both be 100% the lack of statistical perspective is a misstep for the journalists.I’ll keep these NYT articles on the Air Max and the Dreamliner handy next time I book a flight.The Economist notes that two things stand out about business in America today. "One is how successful American firms are; they account for 57 of the world's 100 most valuable listed firms. The other is the bad smell hanging over a number of powerful companies." Boeing, Goldman Sachs, Facebook, Wells Fargo and Purdue's contributions to the opioid epidemic are just some of the examples that suggest "American capitalism is out of kilter." The Economist goes on to point out that the total market value of American firms involved in scandals since 2016 is $1.54 trillion, negatively affecting some 200 million consumers. "Perhaps the rash of crises will prompt corporate soul-searching," it said. "If not, public confidence in capitalism may suffer another blow."After reading this very disturbing expose and the related readers' comments, let me just add this:

Current Acting Defense Secretary, Patrick M. Shanahan spent thirty years in various management positions at Boeing before entering government service.

Ponder that for a minute.

Res ipsa loquitur.

NOT my presidentGee, I wonder now if those vehemently opposed to labor unions can begin to realize that unions not only protect workers, but  the corporations for which they work.In the US, there has been an industry wide shift in corporate management.  Previously, companies were run by engineers who competed on the basis of best design and product.  Management is now MBA/Marketers who run companies that compete for profits.

HP was started by two engineers who designed and produced the best oscilloscopes, plotters, and printers. The HP 4050 LaserJet was a rugged, reliable workhorse,  Once Marketer Carly Fiorina took over, high margin ink jet cartridges became  the companies main source of income.

Same with Boeing,  Previously run by engineers whose goal was to produce the best plane.  Old school pilots could tell the difference.  My Father was a Navy Trained (WW2, PV-1/2 patrol bombers) who later flew for United.  He told me Grumman, Boeing and North American made good planes and Pratt and Whitney made good engines.I was in Naval Aviation for decades. FOD is a killer and every squadron and every OMD performer FOD walk downs daily and in some cases hourly. 

That Boeing is trying to hide things in North Charleston is not a surprise. They wanted cheap labor and they got it and all the sloth that goes along with untrained personnel being pushed to produce for unchained profit motives.Made in America, and we wonder why manufacturing shifted to other countries.  In Japan all of management involved would be disgraced and held accountable... here, business as usual.do you see how it works, folks? boeing was just selected to update the military's bombing fleet for $14B of our tax dollars, regardless of its shoddy, profit-driven work on their own current fleet with 2 recent high-casualty crashes. but they are high-dollar republican campaign donors, so they get the contract. i, personally, will not fly on a boeing airliner. ever again.About three years ago Al Jazeera  (English) TV did a documentary on the Dreamliner production in  Charleston.
Everything in this TIMES story was also presented in the t v story including most telling to me.....employees saying they would never fly on one of their own constructed Dreamliners.
In regard to the 787MAX I doubt  that plane will ever be right. The design appears wrong. The new engines they hung, from my understanding, are wrong for wing dynamics.  It results in the nose pitching up. Its why I guess they had to install a computer to offset it.
Boeing will not go under though maybe it should becausw it is too important to USA Government.Boeing used to represent quality, safety and reliable, not no more.

The company has no integrity and has no ability to distinguish loyal employees from making boss happy employees. And the bosses are corrupted by money. 

When a company puts profit ahead of quality and integrity and covering-up potential problems,  the company is like a cancer patient at the terminal stage.

Top managers are the cancer at Boeing and have to be replaced for a completely new culture emphasizing integrity and quality.  That is the only way out of these failures for Boeing.It is amazing how many people will gleefully rush to destroy anything and everything. It's the American way -build it up and then bring it down.  People/movie stars/companies/our nation.
As has been said, over and over - Careful what you wish for.For a person who has worked in manufacturing, this is a familiar tale - shop-floor managers told accept raw materials or parts which are of border-line quality, workers and supervisors told not to insist on safety or quality standards and Quality Control told to "manage" quality checks to get the product approved. Once this culture is institutionalized in a factory, it is very difficult to correct. That this lax quality culture seems to prevail at a factory manufacturing passenger aircraft is scary.The CEO has to be replaced- as well the head of Production and QC. Following these- out should go the CFO as all of these shoddy work results- speed of production requests are financial driven.

From a long term perspective- the current Senior Management team at Boeing have laid the groundwork for Airbus becoming the majority supplier of commercial aircraft in the world.

I fly numerous times per year. I have never been concerned about the aircraft manufacturer as much as I do now. Boeing is creating a fear of its planes similar to the old MD DC10.Didn't this 'Charleston scandal' story originate from that well known source of unbiased reporting, Russia Today? Practically any YouTube search for 'Boeing' brings up that documentary. TBH, the 'facts' presented there have the hallmarks of the Disgruntled Ex-Employee Revenge scenario.

Sure, Boeing's new model global outsourcing strategy hasn't worked well - some of their subcontractors haven't delivered on promised quality - and one consequence is that Boeing has lost valuably experienced engineers. It also doesn't look good that some parts of the 787 are effectively built by non-US companies, including, ironically, Airbus. But, at least personally, this pro-Airbus European traveller continues to have faith in Boeing.

Dirty tricks abound in this globally important, lucrative, industry. It's certainly in the interest of the Charleston workers - and Airbus - that this 'scandal' gets maximum exposure.Anyone who travels abroad knows transportation facilities and equipment in many European and Asian countries are vastly superior to their American counterparts.  With this latest news of shoddy work and compromises in Boeing aircraft we can add industrial production and quality control to the list of American shortcomings.  The only saving grace is Airbus planes are also available on domestic routes in the United States.Welcome to America's reckoning with its "Exceptionalism." 

America formerly had great skills, the envy of the world. Those skills led to history’s greatest middle class. Integral to creating that middle class were unions, which were instrumental in improving working conditions and living standards. 

Then, in the late decades of the 20th century, US factory owners relocated their plants to China. Their motives were not just to cut wages but to kill the unions. 

Cheaper labor was not in itself unreasonable. What was unreasonable was those plutocrats and their Republican partners blocking other industries from replacing those jobs. They didn't just want cheap labor, they wanted to kill the unions and destroy the Middle Class, so workers would come begging to them for jobs.

They also knew they were overheating the atmosphere from unbridled fossil fuel use. Instead of acting to prevent climate change, however, they lied and denied the facts...and blocked alternative industries from moving in to save the planet. 

They stalled for decades, and are still stalling, even as the world burns. 

Now comes the MAGA President and a company that he promised all kinds of tax breaks. 

Richie Rich, the Bad Boy President, thoroughly corrupt and self-serving, who insults poor countries as s—tholes and steals desperate parents’ children. 

There’s your American Exceptionalism, circling the drain.A classic case study for the  Total-Quality Management  movement.  Reads just like the poster child for "Out of the Crisis" by W.Edwards Deming in 1982!!!

What has not changed? "The overwhelming challenge that faces the United States today (then as now) is the need to regain competitive position in international commerce.  America in fact continues to to lose ground in manufacturing and service markets.  The source of the problem?  Low quality and high costs associated with many products and services.  The way to correct it? Managers must increase the quality and productivity of people and machines that they  manage.  Do America's managers understand what must be done?  W. E. Deming proposes that most do not."As a transplant to the south, and only incidentally a former Seattle Boeing office employee, I'm not at all surprised. The south does not have a skilled  workforce. Plants move here to find that they can't hire skilled workers. One example is an Oshkosh plant that is having to train people to be welders. Labor is cheap in the south, and companies are given incentives to come here. Remember the VW plant in Chattanooga, Tennessee? German manufacturers prefer a different culture between employees and managers, and urged workers to unionize. Governor Haslam and Senator Bob Corker lead a campaign to discourage it, and workers, who were already paid more than typical in TN, voted against the union. VW declined to build a second plant. Now, VW plants in TN are unionized.When are Boeing executives going to jail? Answer: never, as they have such close relationships with government officials.
Should they go to jail? Answer: yes, given their putting human lives behind the profit motive.When I hear about where the factory was going to be located, I wondered where the workers were going to come from.I sincerely believe Boeing has gotten so arrogant with their success that they convinced themselves they could do no wrong. Their arrogance cost the lives of hundreds of innocent people. Now to find out that there’s shoddy workmanship in the SC plant is astounding. They built a plant in a State with few employee benefits and safeguards. A place not exactly renown for its high tech workers. More importantly Boeing has lost people’s confidence in an industry where trust is essential. I fly every week and I won’t fly Boeing anymore. It’s Airbus for me!Let us all gather together at the tomb of the great Milton Friedman, hold candles and sing Hallelujah!
Because if you do a RCA, you will find that a lot of branches and nodes in that Ishikawa diagram will end up pointing to that wise Lord of the Free Market par excellence.  Wasn't he the one who sculpted in concrete into the brains of all his Economics and business students and almost a generation that nothing else matters except profit and Shareholders?  C'mon people, have a little faith.  What's a few missing and crashed airliners?  Give the free market a chance to regulate itself eh?  Those of you who are still very much in apoplexy, lets go visit the Business Roudtable and sit with some CEOs who will comfort us about why heeding to Friendman's dictum may be hard in the short term but will fetch us plenty in the long term.  Do not despair!  Our savior in the Senate Mr.Mitch and his better half, Transportation Big Boss Elaine Chao will fix everything for us!  Also, be reminded that not many Americans died in these crashes, no?  What's a few hundered Third World lives eh?  Consider Qatar Airways in this article, see how clever they were in rejecting bad airplanes.  You see there is a Caveat Emptor in operation.  Free Market magic!  Milton was right!!!  Airlines have to be careful buyers, no?  God bless Milton Friendman.The issues which brought both planes down seems to be software/ sensor related.
This hit piece on Boeing is impressive and either a harbinger of things to come or just another hit piece.
6943 employees and contractors work at North Charleston according to Wikipedia.
Please assemble a force of 6943 people to do anything flawlessly and let the world know that you have vanquished the issues regarding life itself.
The people who work there are just that, people.
They have sick kids, old parents, cars with bad timing belts, leaking plumbing and on and on.
The fact is people who do anything make mistakes.
Of course management wants things done better, faster, cheaper, that's the nature of management.
Boeing aircraft are flying tanks, generally speaking.
While not without flaw they are generally good, servicable, and live long working lives.
I'm certain that all those interviewed mean with conviction what they say, and such complaints are how eventually things are done better.
Back to why this article was published, the fatal crashes of a new series of aircraft.
The wing didn't fall off, the fuselage was not compromised, a system of computer controlled analytics misinterpreted information, took control of the aircraft and hurtled it in to the earth.
The first aircraft produced the same sytemic failure the day prior and was saved by a man who simply turned the system off.
This is a software issue, not a dirty manufacturing issue.
I am put off by this writer trying to kill Boeing.Unless I missed it (which is possible), the article doesn’t say where the two Boeing planes that crashed were manufactured. Were they manufactured at the South Carolina plant? I am just an ordinary layman, but I have wondered whether the crashes could have been caused by manufacturing issues, as well as design flaws. I’m not a union guy and I know that unions can be a big pain in the butt to management, but unions can also provide a check on dangerous business practices and protect not just workers, but also the purchasers of the product and, in fact, the national interest. We are about to start the most critical presidential election season since 1940. Maybe we ought to have a big debate about the roll of unions and unchecked management during this campaign.Keep up the good work on  this NYT. Clearly even more to be learned about Boeing's shoddy practices.Since the times screens these comments I question strongly the comments which get published, seems they can be slanted towards support of the article.
Just "claims", so the question is  have they resulted in an accidents or significant delays flying this aircraft the 787?  
If not then we should seriously question the Times motive for publication, other than click bait journalism which seems for this management the goal in many  articles recently --Republicans have time and time again poo-pooed regulations and oversight as unnecessary and profit killing. They praise and promote self regulation. Time and Time again, Corporate America has shunned safety in favor of profits. This is what you get.At the same time, my father, an engineer at an airplane company from the 1950s to near the end of the 1980s, who knew the ropes in that he worked his way up from being a machinist, began to complain that draftsmen were becoming less careful and were making errors, and he was concerned.

We see that even more nowadays. Ever order a bookcase and find that the holes for the shelf cleats don't line up? Or get a house painted only to inspect the job and find whole swaths neither scraped nor painted at all? Or discover a loose, extra screw in the binding of a ski and realize that the mechanism isn't working precisely because the last guy who tuned it accidentally dropped the screw in and never fished it out?

Or teachers who don't correct essays and then argue that doing so adversely affects a student's pride? Certainly saves them work. 

Better management would help. Doing a job carefully would also be good.Why does corporate management continue to relocate their production facilities to states where they wouldn’t be caught dead sending their own children to the public schools?

Companies that can’t see the connection between low wages, low taxes, and low education deserve the headaches.Sure. Ya can hold management and supervision responsible. However, the workers doing the work. Do you really want to babysit adult workers being sloppy? 

I have been building above ground swimming pools for most of 45 years and we do not leave one tool. One screw. One piece of garbage on the ground. And yeah, we deal with shavings from drilling metal and from self-driving screws and we pick up each piece with our fingers, so the pieces don't fall into the pool and possibly poke a hole in the liner, or end up on the lawn where some barefoot child (or adult) might pick a piece up with their toes, which probably won't happen, but we do it anyway.

And the pay, high/low or whatever and union or non-union should have absolutely nothing to do with the quality of work some one does. If you wouldn't do a good job at a dollar an hour, what makes me think you would do a better job if you were paid more (Exclamation Point. Not a question mark.)

Yeah. Pools. Not airplanes.If you asked a Republican what was their favorite regulation that trump and the party have gotten rid of they would not be able to answer the question.  All they know is that 'regulations are bad.  Because the party constantly roars how bad regulations are for business.  I wonder what the families of all those that have lost their lives on a Boeing plane think of regulations.Corporate versus government (management versus engineering) measures of success: profits versus achievement. Let the buyer beware. 

Labor is interested in doing a good job they can be proud of. Management wants to make good profits that make their bank accounts bigger.When you hire a GE alum as CEO you have to assume profits  come before quality.  Six sigma coat cutting usually yields less than six sigma operating results.Profits over everything else will be a continuing theme in stories about American corporations for so long as corporations owe a fiduciary duty to their shareholders. Put out a superior product at a lower profit margin and you’re setting yourself up for a shareholder suit or involvement from private equity or activist shareholders.This is why I am a NYT subscriber. Outstanding reporting and writing.The circumstantial evidence points to planes made in a Union shop are safer. After the union tried to get the job back for a union employee who threw a giant sheer at my fathers head and went through his hand, I have come to the conclusion that Unions are like Nuclear Power. They can be used for both good an evil. This is the example of a good use.Prison time for the Boeing executives responsible is the only recourse.The 737 Max  reveals the perils of outsourcing the regulatory function to the aircraft mfr.  The Dreamliner reveals the perils of weakening the labor force relative to mgt.  Boeing is emerging as exhibit A in the case against unbridled capitalism.One feature in the discussion I read here is a constant condemnation of MBAs and the MBA culture. Which begs the question, what went wrong with the MBA. It is probably useful to understand the origin and purpose of the MBA degree to see what has gone wrong, and why it's an issue at places like Boeing.

The MBA was originally designed for mid-career professionals moving to management. The target group for MBA students were typically engineers and other technical or financial professionals, needing formal management training to fill in gaps, and return to their industry, usually with 3-10 years of professional work experience before the MBA; because so many already had degrees, albeit in engineering, science or another subject, the degree was created as a "Masters Degree."

However, in the last 3 decades or so the MBA has changed - ask MBA students. The first thing is that many, if not most recent MBA candidates' undergraduate degree is in Business (BBA) - but since the MBA was intended for business degree ingenue, the BBA studying for an MBA is mostly taking the same or similar courses (which non-BBAs point out hurts them on the grading curve.) Second, many MBA candidates have at most 1-2 years work experience in a profession or industry, as compared to the 3-10 years typical in the past. Finally, the best and brightest go to consulting and banks, not places like Boeing. So few MBAs have the technical skills their industry management jobs require, just ambition and avarice.These are the types of problems found when the walls between unethical management and non-union workers are created.  Unions don't just gain better wages for employees.  They help establish the contractual agreements and rules of the activities of production.   Professionalism and pride in the work performed is the benefit demonstrated by Union employees.  That is what creates the difference between employees who are just paid slaves and craftsmen who are proud of their skills.Why would anyone trust or fly in a plane manufactured by Boeing? It appears that Airbus is the more responsible manufacturer. Non-union labor in South Carolina appears to be part of the problem.It is not just manufacturing problems, it is design as well, such as duplicating, systems backups that is the standard in aircraft manufacturing. How on earth did the FAA allow Boeing to design  a flight safety system, most vulnerable on take off, rely on one sensor. Our great record in aviation is in jeopardy and we have a great competitor (Air Bus) that never would let that obvious failure happen.
Beware FAA deregulation, it is our standard down to every nut and bolt and procedures in the industry. Our lives and economy rely on it. Don't mess it up, it is a proud industry.Having Boeing employees as quality control inspectors rather defeats the purpose as they are disciplined for reporting errors and deficiency.  The manager wants to look good and get a bonus for trouble free production quotas.  Senior management gets bonuses and the shareholders get higher dividends.  Quality control should be subject to independent inspection at any time without notice like the food industry.  All violations found should also be examined by independent inspectors not subject to the manufacturer.  Companies cannot be trusted to police themselves.Airbus has Boeing so afraid that it is willing to cut corners to stay ahead in the production game?
Get the bean counters out, put those quality control people back in.
This is aviation, not Wall Street.Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman for Boeing, said, “We prioritize safety and quality over speed, but all three can be accomplished while still producing one of the safest airplanes flying today.”  The management attitude shows a lack of concern to get to the root cause of any problems, they don't want to hear it. And the F2F, is a sham again, as there should be a written record of violations and issues, if management is serious about systemic, repeatable problems. But Gordon rings the party line, and will get promoted, and the attitude to squash the voice at the bottom will hurt the customer.Shoddy works might not be about racing against Airbus as much as to cut corners for a buckAs long as this conduct is dismissed as corporate greed and incompetence the process will continue.
When some managers are held personally responsible for these failures things will get better fast.
A few year-end bonuses turning into personal liability suits should do the trick.
How hard is that?I think I will choose an Airbus over Boeing when I fly going forward. I now find that I check what type of plane I'll be on when I buy a ticket online.As this immaculate piece of journalism clearly shows us, the single most important thing in America, the one thing which operationally trumps everything else, which essentially defines all value and worth is . . . money.

(They don't call it the Almighty Dollar for nothing.)

You can have prosperity. You can have a high-functioning society with stability, clean air, food, and water. You can have a social contract that works and provides the right kinds of sustainable incentives, one which grows skilled, thoughtful people of high character and productivity. You can have public education that locates, nourishes, and propels outward and upwards men and women who build and maintain a better world for us all.

Or you can churn out some billionaires. You can't have both. It's crystal clear which path we have chosen.Shoddy workmanship will doom the American aerospace industry the way it doomed the American auto industry.I know what will fix it: how about another sixteen billion dollars of Dept. of Defense contracts with little to no oversight?

Shame.Leaving your lunch pail inside the plane may not cause a disaster but while we wait, why not go after the retaliation?  If workers know they cannot be punished for reporting problems, the rest should take care of itself.Top management and the Board need to be replaced.  It is quite clear Boeing has last it’s way I a business that demands attention to safety.  Firing and harassing employees for doing their jobs to help insure safety is flat out unacceptable.  
This kind of attitude, maximizing profit at any cost is not acceptable.  

For starters, any executive compensation tied to stock price needs to be eliminated.  Enough with the greed and shortcuts at the expense of the workforce and the public that buys these products.

Reading this article makes me angry and ill.  Boeing has forgotten its number one product is safety of the people who fly in their planes.  Shame on them.Now is the time when savvy wall streeters start shorting Boeing stock.  A safety-based company has put profits first and the board sits mum.My US made Cadillac, RV, and Truck are all lemons.  Now the planes are Kaput.Hey Boeing, how about firing the managers who berate, fire and harrass the workers when they point out debris left in the planes and other very basic safety concerns? Why not create  squeaky clean planes? Hire people to clean up and contain the messes?  How avout bringing in airforce grads looking for civilian jobs ... sounds like the airforce knows the importance of a spotless jet!I experience this type of business mentality as a surgical RN at a level 1 trauma center.
It’s all profits over pt. care.
All of us, surgeons, nurses, scrub techs, CRNAs, anesthesiologists, anesthesia techs, central supply processing techs, housekeeping staff, lab personnel, pharmacists, blood bank, we rush, and rush and rush day and night EVERY DAY to get an exhausting amount of elective surgeries done to maximize profits and pray no life or death mistakes are made.
It’s shameful!!!!A report well worth reading!Boeing should outsource manufacturing to Europe or Asia.Thank God for Airbus. Boeing is destined for the trash bin due to corporate greed and incompetence. Terrible for Boeing's workers, however, but perhaps Airbus can relocate to the U.S. Having flown in both planes and all of these problems aside, European Airbus the more comfortable and stable aircraft."American Airlines said it conducted rigorous inspections of new planes before putting them into service. “We have confidence in the 787s we have in our fleet,” said Ross Feinstein, a spokesman for the airline."

Which translates as "we don't trust Boeing so we do an extreme inspection ourselves."  The obvious question is, does AA conduct the same inspections on Airbus and Embraer aircraft, or do they have more confidence in those manufacturers quality control - and if they do the same inspections, do they find the same level or FOD?The N Y Times says there are "questions" as to whether Boeing compromised plane designs and function in an attempt to beat "Airbus."  From here, the only folks that have questions is the media.  It should be pretty obvious to anyone paying attention.  The culture that led to the 737 Max. fiasco is NOT confined to the 737 Max., apparently, but is rather apparent in their other models as well.
We should not be surprised, look at the pieces of "junk" the industry is selling to the Defense Department.  Even with its problems, the 737 Max is miles ahead of the F35.If true, then the Boeing BOD must fire the Boeing CEO.

Since the demise of anti-trust, the emergence of union busting and the advent of stock awards to senior executives, American manufacturing has been degraded.

When CEOs are paid 360 times the amount of factory workers, the CEOs should at least be held accountable for the performance of their companies.

So long as Congress abets the crony capitalism and turns a blind eye to the interlocked executive compensation committees that span corporate America, only the 1% aspirants will prosper.  Just look at what Jack Welch did to GE while lining his pockets.This article, and a range of comments describe, but do not adequately explain, a process of exploitive profiting in which relevant “data” are documented and reported; done something with (“ analyzed” or covered up) creating  some type of information-knowing, which all too often neither leads to needed understanding nor necessary interventions. Repeated time and time again, with few relevant changes being done.How long does it take to check out an accusation whose consequences are human lives and limbs in an AI accessible culture? What are the human, as well as nonhuman,barriers to uncovering the covered up in a culture which enables, and even fosters, personal unaccountability? What can be expected as a realistic outcome of an article like this other than it being read, totally, or partially, and then moving on to the next article? At what age, on average, taking into consideration differential qualities of education in different parts of this diverse, divided, country, do children learn the word” whistle blower;” spelling it correctly as well as integrating it as a basic menschlich daily guiding-value? Norm? Ethic? Perhaps also with “ accountability,” and “impunity?” It’s Easter Sunday in Jerusalem. Winds are howling. Temperatures have dropped. A gray day.In what ways, if any, can what is being described lead to making a difference that is a sustainable needed difference? Not just published words! Thank you for investigating and investing efforts.More than words are needed.The sad state of affairs with American companies.  Greedy executives more interested in lining their pockets with short-term riches via gains in stock prices vs growing the true value of the company via quality products.

As a part of several companies over the last 30 years, I’ve witnessed the exploitation of technical and manufacturing talent.  People that want to do a good job but are literally impeded by management through unrealistic expectations just to meet some financially-based timeline so a good report can be made to boost stock price.

My cynicism peaked just before I retired and despite having a fair amount of knowledge and experience I just have no desire to be frustrated anymore.

So absurd!!!The long and the short of it:  Unions work.You really don't have to dig deep to uncover Boeing's priorities - there is only one - shareholder and C-Suite enrichment.

As we saw from the two foreign disasters, concern about the share price was front and center.  The disgusting reaction and lack of a swift apology by the cowardly CEO speaks volumes.You can't concentrate on your job when you are worried about paying your bills. Goes for Fast Food, Aerospace, Construction, etc...As I said in previous post Boeing should be shut down, its stock plunge to zero. Such evil cannot be tolerated. 
There are alternatives like airbus. The public should refuse to fly in a Boeing jet.Perfect in the Trump era. No one can be trusted anymore.South Carolina’s lousy education system and good ole boy politicians set the stage for Boeing’s disastrous experience in North Charleston.
Former governor and soon to be presidential candidate Nikki Haley, was bashing unions before, during and after union elections at Boeing, all defeated.  Nikki and her legislature gave away the store with at least a billion dollars in tax incentives, and promises for upgraded education never happened.
This is typical for South Carolina, last in everything but abuse of women.A spokesman for Boeing, Gordon Johndroe, said, “We prioritize safety and quality over speed, but all three can be accomplished..."

No, no you can't, not without a better or bigger workforce.

Or Boeing's HR in South Carolina has hired tons of bad apples, and they're all lying.I know absolutely nothing about the specifics of management at Boeing.  But from the 1980s, there has been an application of classical stock-market pump-and-dump tactics of actual productive industry.  Produce the appearance of great success while doing long-term damage.  By the time the damage shows up, the ‘smart money’ is long gone.

A general error arising from an ideological hatred of the elements of socialism that the West took in so as to survive.  See <a href="https://gwydionwilliams.com/99-problems-magazine/the-mixed-economy-worked-quite-well" target="_blank">https://gwydionwilliams.com/99-problems-magazine/the-mixed-economy-worked-quite-well</a>/.Products like aircraft that involve life and death issues should be made under the supervision of people whose first love is aircraft rather than money.  But a top manager who does not love money first (because the owners of the business love money first) is a traitor to capitalism.So the Green New Deal's idea about not flying is supported by Boeing, all be it indirectly? 

Now let me share with you why I don't eat meat. U.S. slaughterhouse quality control. 

MAGA not.The pentagon recently stopped accepting the new Boeing tanker because of FOD and poor workmanship.  i'm surprised that wasn't in this story.I am not sure I want to own Boeing stocks.Isn't this what deregulation is all about?  The greedy and sleazy Self policing and self exonerating.Good companies do not play the game of excuse makers with excellent lawyers; good companies admit mistakes and move on!
It really tarnishes the “Made in America” name when segments like these are uncovered. We’re still in the middle of the German Dieselgate and now this American made fiasco. What a sham! In Germany top managers had to go and are facing prison time. Im waiting.Can we now get rid of the way planes are inspected by both government and builder. Go back to the old way. Haste makes death!!Almost weekly we get some shocking news about Boeing. What a shame. The fish rots from the head!! Hopefully Boeing’s board is working actively behind the scenes to get rid of this bunch of bozos,(no other way to say it), in management, that has been destroying this great Company, especially over the last decade. Let’s hope that the board will find ways to send Muilenburg & co. back home with a backpack full of rocks and certainly not with a golden parachute. The road to regaining credibility leads invariably through a thorough cleanup of the structure, culture and modus operandi of this company. Time will tell if the board has the necessary competence and moral resources to do what is urgently necessary.Another great article from the NYT thank you so much.Some of these comments are fantastic.

I don’t understand our current leaderships fascination with a warped conservative ethos where unions and mindful regulations are bad for America.   I’m so sick of hearing “what the American People want” from a bunch of idiots.

Pride in American workmanship and craft requires a balance in skilled men and women paid an honest wage for their work, experience, knowledge and insight.   

There’s no reason we can focus are energy in this country and retool skilled labor to meet the needs of an AI induced future.

With that being said, the C-suite and Boards of companies lately only seemed focused on profit and short term gain.  At what cost?

I’m sure many economists will way in with modeling debates but we tend to forget human nature in the scope of all things.   We’re incredibly flawed behaviorally.   Otherwise the planet wouldn’t be such a mess.

Boeing needs to realize the its people are Boeing - not the leadership or the Board.   They will all be dead soon for all of their fortunes that bought them really nothing of measure, save for putting people’s lives at risk for more pennies.If it's Boeing, I ain't going.So, we learn that mighty Bo has feet of clay. And in North Charleston them feet are bare!It's all about money.This must be a reflection of making  America great again, slipshod and halfassed from the top down. Poor America,self regulating corporations, a feature of bush-obama trickledownism, is no different than how the banks were managed unti... wait, nothing has changed. As in 2008 when the bansters walked (with taxpayer-funded bonuses), the 'passengers' are the ones to die. They, we, are not a consideration - for us it will always crash down while the money flows up. i wonder how this ends?Like the old expression “no respect for human life”.This is economic warfare by the Chinese. Even these commenters trying to sway public opinion.The capture of the regulatory agencies like the FAA and OSHA by the companies that they are supposed to regulate has been going for decades.
Darrell Whitman who was a lawyer and investigator at the Whistleblower Protection Program at OSHA and the Department of Labor was retaliated and fired  for investigating whistleblowers for example at FedEx. He was on the Daily Show and then Tom Perez fired him.
Here are some links to the corruption of these regulatory agencies.
FedEx OSHA FAA Whistleblower Mechanic Gruzalski, OSHA Investigator Whitman, The Crimes & The Trial
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_gPMY0wLg3I&t=140s" target="_blank">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_gPMY0wLg3I&t=140s</a>
OSHA DOL, FAA Captured By Corps & Airlines, Trucking & OSHA With Fired OSHA  Investigator Whitman
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lfr7rtfqeFc&t=39s" target="_blank">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lfr7rtfqeFc&t=39s</a>This would have been unbelievable without the 737 Super Max stories.“You can have it good; you can have it fast; you can have it cheap.  Pick any two.”   — Red AdairBet the president is a bit nervous about flying on Air Force One now. Guess pretty soon our airliners like everything else in America will be made in China.This should be the death knell for Boeing management before they’re the death knell for us.Boeing, a blue-chip stock—

And what an embarrassment to the United States of Capitalistic Greed—

Not to mention the unconscionable disregard of human safety!GE and now Boeing, win win?Note to self .. avoid flying in Boeing aircraft.Dear Times reporters, 

I’m guessing your familiar with the recent incident involving a Boeing 737 flown by Norwegian Air having engine trouble and needing to land in Iran?

<a href="https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.bloomberg.com/amp/news/articles/2019-02-23/norwegian-air-jet-stranded-in-iran-finally-arrives-home" target="_blank">https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.bloomberg.com/amp/news/articles/2019-02-23/norwegian-air-jet-stranded-in-iran-finally-arrives-home</a>Boeing is a very large organization producing a complicated product requiring high precision in design, engineering and manufacture and the failure of which can cause disastrous consequences.

The NYT has now published two alarming articles alleging serious problems at the company, essentially blaming management for sacrificing product quality and safety for increased profit.

What is the premise of the article as to labor relations? That only unionized workers do good work? That workers in Seattle are good, workers in the Carolinas can't be trusted?  

The redesign of the 737 to create the Max 8 seems an example of brilliant innovation: more passengers, longer range, more fuel efficient, cost effective, a boon to commercial aviation, a boon to America, a shining example of capitalism at work. But of course only if the Max 8 is a safe reliable aircraft, as all other Boeing jets have been, sometimes only after problems have been discovered and corrective action taken. 

The question is, do these articles fairly present the situation? The facts they allege are pretty much impossible to refute, they rely on isolated incidents and anecdotal accounts from disgruntled people. One cannot help but feel there are two sides to these stories, and even in cases where they are true, they may be only one bad instance in hundreds of occurrences  with good outcomes.  The articles sow seeds of doubt in the minds of the public.  The damage they do may be irreversible.Much righteous commentary about how the evil Boeing compromised safety by setting up a plant in low-union SC where it could avoid high cost labor in Seattle ("I'll never fly on a Boeing aircraft again -- it's Airbus for me").    How many are aware Airbus has set up a plant in low-union Alabama where it now assembles A321 aircraft, the main competitor to the Boeing 737, and doubtless pays its workers less than in Toulouse, its Seattle.  How many are aware their "European" Mercedes or BMW may well have been assembled in low wage Alabama or SC, or their "Japanese" Toyota in low wage Kentucky, Indiana, or Texas? 

You can never achieve 100% safety.  We can argue about how far to go, but there always is and must be a stopping point, and no matter what that point is there will always be something to criticize, and something will eventually happen and armchair critics will say so-and-so should have done more and is only interested in profits.  It's just not that simple.Consider the saying: A camel is a horse designed by a committee" in considering what is the root problem of the 737 Max. The original 737 was designed and tested with a different engine configuration. The 737 Max changed to different, larger engines while more fuel efficient altered the center of gravity and handling characteristics necessitating the need for software to help fly the plane. Rube Goldberg at his finest. Someone at the top of the management chain decided that it would be cheaper to retrofit a 50-year old design rather than create a completely new one like they should have. My bet is that the higher ups with the blinders on in denial won't get it figured out until the 737 Max crashes and all lives are lost for a third time.what a dopey hit piece. removing shavings is like vacuuming a rug. no one would leave that behind.  in the words of the great don henley:

kick em when they're dowmThe moral of this story and countless other similar stories is the rich and powerful will go unpunished even for murder and/or destroying lives.  It routinely happens in manufacturing, banking, and pharmaceuticals and is common enough in virtually every other industry, business, service, and institution.

Some say this is not a political story, but it truly is! There is plenty of blame to go around but it's politicians who should be held accountable for rewarding their wealthy patrons/donors by allowing them to avoid regulations, de-unionize, and providing them unfair tax breaks.  Politicians are seldom punished because voters are slavish to their party and always unequivocally blame the other party.  It's why many of us independent voters are frustrated most elections when we have to decide between the lesser of two bad choices.Does anyone know if airline security with regulations were among the one-third of regulations that Trump cut?Well, folks, it's called capitalism!

You've chosen to live in such a system, now you have to live with the system, with all it's overworked, underpaid, sleep-deprived workers, it's shoddy, cheap tools, parts and materials, it's rush-to-market approach.

The disturbing part is not what Boeing does. The disturbing part is that they are allowed to continue to do it by the FAA, the government writ large, the courts and so on. It shows that all these institutions are in bed with Big Manufacturing, that jobs and taxes are more important than lives to the government.

After the 737 MAX debacle my opinion of the FAA was already at it's lowest point ever, but this report puts it underground. You Americans KNOW that companies will put dog poop in your burgers if you let them. You KNOW that companies will make baby rompers from asbestos if you let them. This is why you HAVE regulators. But now you know that these are toothless, company compliant rubber-stampers (see also: SEC).

There are only two ways to protect your lives: leave the U.S. (Germany would welcome you) or initiate a mini-revolution to remove this kind of capitalism from your country. Teddy Roosevelt did it when he went against the robber barons! You need the right candidate to become president, and for this issue (and others) Senator Elizabeth Warren might be the right choice. If I weren't German I'd vote for her.This is where the profit motive falls apart. They do not have a significant incentive to fix their product.

Now, if the FAA had a two card rule like soccer, and they had one shot to fix a life threatening issue before, say, being fined an entire years profit and shareholder distribution, as well as clawing back the entire c suite and safety management salaries to minimum wage-that might do the trick.

Kill people by not doing the right thing-face personal financial ruin. Seems fair to me. You have that responsibility-you should 1)be compensated for the weight of it, 2)face the penalty when you screw up. If you saved your pennies appropriately, you’ll make it thru the year you go from $250k to $15/hr.Boeing may be a good short. I bought it after the 737 max crashes thinking it was a really great company with an unanticipated setback. But, I got nervous and sold the stock as poor management  decisions seemed to be the primary cause of the crashes.  Now, the more I read, the more I believe they’re not the company they’d have us believe they are.  These comments reinforce that notion. I’ll take a company run by engineers any day.I have 40 years of manufacturing management experience  I find this report to be believable and it speaks to a culture problem within Boeing.  Cultures are very difficult to change but it is possible to do so with competent leadership.  What Alan Mullaly did with Ford is a good example.  So many good companies have gone down the tubes by putting cost reduction as their top goal.  I have seen that more times than not, these efforts actually hurt the bottom line either through lost sales or expenses from the unintended consequences of their actions.  Leaving tools and debris in your product is indicative of workers who don't care or want revenge on thither management and inadequate QA/QC systems.  This puts Boeing in the difficult situation as the Chinese aircraft industry is evolving.Boeing joins Volkswagen, bank America as companies that have placed profits over people to the degree that they should not exist. There has to be a severe penalty for their behavior.Ultimately, it’s the airline flying public who are to blame. We demand cheaper flights that are on time and have no layovers. To do this airlines have to cut costs, including the cost of their fleet. Government oversight comes with a cost to our pocketbooks. If we aren’t willing to pay for that, we need to realize there are consequences.Where is the Board of Directors?  You need to fire the CEO and anyone who would layoff a hundred quality inspectors as a way of doing business.  They should all be required to see or read All My Sons by Arthur Miller.  If Boeing doesn't place quality first, it deserves to lose all of its plane orders.This is so sad!  Meanwhile the income inequality gap continues to grow and our work force gets dumber.  We use to be the leader in the world for everything.  Now we are falling by the wayside more each day.

Our government is led by a man that plays fast and loose with the truth and is a borderline criminal.  The cabinet positions are held by people that know nothing about the area they are responsible for.  And Congress does absolutely nothing and has no  new ideas how to fix things.  The Supreme Court is turning into a bunch of political hacks.

Our corporate leaders are making hundreds of millions of dollars each year but seem to show less leadership and even less subject matter knowledge.  Not so smart kids are paying their way into our top universities while smart poor kids go to minimum wage jobs or if they are lucky community college.

The Roman empire fell.  The French empire fell.  The United Kingdom isn't so united or a kingdom anymore.  It seems we too are going the way of once great nations that are not so great anymore (regardless of campaign slogans)."So, what else is new?"  I thought, as I finished the second paragraph.  The only thing that matters at every medium to large workplace now is to get the most done as quickly as possible by the smallest workforce you can get away with having.  Corporate culture is to get your "team" convinced they are doing a great job and that management really cares about their concerns and quality work but they just have to work a little harder, with less.This is the case at many large companies, some of which I have experienced first hand. Upper level management is increasingly divorced from the actual production of their products and make decisions based primarily on profit and meeting schedules. When they are challenged they are more likely to retaliate against the people asking the quality questions than to address the root cause.

I think that I have a new personal rule - only fly on a Boeing plane when it is absolutely necessary and wait to see if Boeing can earn back my trust. We are not talking about a defective blender after all but something that millions of people stake their lives on every time that they board a Boeing plane.Another shocking revelation! A company which puts money over safety and people. There are thousands of companies that operate exactly the same way. Whether its drugs companies responsible for the opioid crisis or landscaping companies with unprotected workers inhaling toxins it's all about the money.
We should now know we can't trust them to be nice guys. They must be scrutinized and carefully watched by the government which should be protecting us.Great investigative article that leaves this passenger wondering whether to ever fly the Dreamliner on Norweighen Air over the Atlantic from Newark to Barcelona, which I do twice a year. 
We scan for the best seats before booking, must we now scan for the best planes, NOT Boeing?A product is only as good as its workforce and its management teams. South Carolina tax breaks and non-union labor costs plus foreign companies' desire to establish manufacturing facilities in their biggest market have brought many jobs to the state even though tourism and agriculture are still the largest part of South Carolina's economy. But quantity does not necessarily beget quality and it's not clear to me that Boeing, BMW, Volvo, Michelin are getting the benefit of top quality workers unless they import them. SC schools do not have a good reputation and SC's legislature has only just approved a raise for their historically badly underpaid teachers who were quitting in droves.The current world in which we live is dominated by only 2 manufacturers of large commercial airplanes.  While the article reflects allegations of certain deficiencies in Boeing’s quality control which may or may not be accurate, given the virtual binary nature of Boeing’s industry, one may be left with the impression that Airbus doesn’t suffer from the same or similar deficiencies, an impression that is likely inaccurate given both the complexity of the product and the vast number and diverse nature of employees required to produce such modern day large airplanes.The appropriate Committee in the House should subpoena the entire board of directors, along with the top 25 executives, for a very public hearing.

Before those individuals go under oath, that Committee should hear testimony from the workers who were retaliated upon.  Several of those workers.

As stock price crumbles, it will occur to the board members that the executive chambers need a thorough clean out, just as the newly manufactured planes do.Boeing is a microcosm of corporate America. Profits over patients in the drug industry, profits over quality at Boeing, profits over food safety.  One can make an argument that the current administration is an enabler of this behavior as Wall Street banks continue to rake in millions in profits while people are having trouble paying for insulin.  

Boeing moved production out of Seattle for one basic reason: lower costs. That strategy is backfiring as Boeing is now in the crosshairs of a nation. Little comfort to the families who lost loved ones because of defective sensors and a rush to get the 737 Max 8 to market.After reading this story I am reminded of the mantra of corporations, "trust us, we don't need government oversight".  So we do and this is what we get.Just yesterday, I flew 787 from Paris to Bogota - in an Air France - a 1 year old airplane.

I fly a lot and 787 has now become my favorite plane to fly.

As an engineer who spent 43 plus years in the oil patch in the ops engineering - this is a surprise - to come from Boeing.

I would think that it cannot be that hard to trace these left over parts - with today's RFD technology or even just a bar code.

Items found most left behind - Boeing can start pasting RFD chips to track them.  Surely, there is enough space on a ladder.  This RFD chip can have all kinds of information- most critically which work crew it belongs to.

Or for that matter, just a bar code - that can be used to trace the origin of the parts the same way.

Name and shame works most of the time - before a careless worker can be fired over repeated violations.

Ok, chewing gum - that's hard to trace - unless DNA is applied.Why blame only Boeing? The collusion of airline companies with their key supplier should also be highlighted. No airline is willing to criticize Boeing publicly. They are perhaps worried about retribution from Boeing, which can choke off supply. On the flip side, airlines insist on cost-savings, which leads Boeing to make bad engineering and quality control decisions. The airlines and Boeing are hand-in-glove. We can't blame one and leave the other out for the current woes that passengers are suffering from.Thanks for this informative article. You've exposed the 'innards' both literally and figuratively of Boeing's plane making operations and clearly there are some serious 'red flags' related to basic safety that need to be fixed.

Boeing's move from our Emerald State to S. Carolina to raise profits is clearly costing them in quality, safe production. Cutting quality control managers given the already serious quality issues that you've reported on sounds downright dangerous.  Managers documenting safety concerns in writing should be mandatory, and COMMENDED not reprimanded. 

Leaving a ladder and a string of lights in the tail of a jet? What was that person smoking?  Were they sleep deprived? Door trim being put together with bubble gum?  Did that person take their job seriously? Come ON Boeing.  Why aren't there higher standards required?  Why isn't there better training to ensure workers will 'track' all their tools? This is basic stuff that parents teach their kids: Don't leave a mess.  Clean UP after yourself! Especially when that 'mess' will cause engine failures and fires that will down a plane.
 Security cameras are pretty inexpensive nowadays. If I were Boeing, I'd install them to improve quality control where the plane is being built. 

Boeing needs to put some of their profits into AI software design that would sound an alarm whenever a tool/debris was dropped or left behind. Simply provide the AI with a digital 'ideal construction model' for contrast.Lifetime Seattlelite here who thinks Boeing make its own bed when it left SEATTLE to go on the cheap.  Boeing union workers were best in the country because they were proud of their hometown and fair William Boeing.  We take pride in what we do to keep the Boeing name one to be proud of.FWIW: The 2009 book _It Looked Good on Paper: Bizarre Inventions, Design Disasters, and Engineering Follies_ (ed. Bill Fawcett) contains 60+ short, entertainingly-written chapters. Although I must have read it many times, I recently particularly noticed the chapter "Double Jeopardy," written by Teresa Patterson.

The causes of a 737 crash in 1991, and another in 1994, were considered unknown. In 1999, there was an incident in a 737 in which the pilot tried to turn the plane left, but it "pushed back" and turned right; fortunately, a crash was averted.  The NTSB determined that the problem in all three incidents was with badly-designed "redundant systems in the main rudder power control unit. The very redundant systems that were supposed to prevent an accident actually caused it."

See also  <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boeing_737_rudder_issues" target="_blank">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boeing_737_rudder_issues</a>  This Wikipedia article gives more details about the issue, and mentions that the FAA, in addition to ordering servo valve replacement within three years, "...also ordered new training protocols for pilots to handle in an unexpected movement of flight controls."

Not *exactly* the situation we've seen lately, but there are certainly echoes...The Boeing saga highlights the "profits first" philosophy of private business, which is why the capitalist model does not adapt itself well to activities in which no expense should be spared to produce the highest quality product.  The same problem pervades private health insurance, private prisons, etc.I helped build the very first 787 out of Charleston SC and every one built until mid 2017. I was frustrated, burned out, and tired of constantly being pushed to perform miracles daily. Boeing brought in qualified workers early in the program, but they also hired local burger flippers off the streets. The qualified workers were pushed hard while the burger flippers hung out in the break rooms, surfing the internet. Management knew exactly what was going on but would never address the issues. We never seemed to have enough parts to finish jobs, or the flightline would come and rob parts from the factory. If parts or hardware were needed for one line number, they would be taken from jets down line. Imagine all this frustration and then being told that you are scheduled for mandatory OT to meet customer demands. I routinely saw quality buy off work they never even looked at. I quit on 2017 and felt a whole lot better about myself. Boeing does care about safety, but only to protect its profits.Remember those calls between boeing and trump.
Thats the quality running the show. 

And people complain about the quality of Chinese made goods.As cabin crew based with a large international airline out of LHR I fly on the Dreamliner a couple of times a month. If what I am reading is correct, it makes me sick. At the end of the day we all want to get home to our families.This is not a pretty picture of management culture at Boeing in commercial aircraft manufacturing.  Much of it appears credible.Boeing is a taxpayer-subsidized war profiteer corporation that has an inherent lack of ethics from top to bottom.
That's one reason it rushed ahead with production of unsafe planes and covered up the safety problems.
Boeing, Lockheed, Raytheon, and the many other companies that make weapons of war and death are a perfect example of the greed and immorality of raw capitalism.
Anyone who works for these companies is complicit in what the American military-industrial complex has done to bring massive suffering to innocent people worldwide.It should be counter intuitive. A plane crashes - hundreds die, relatives sue Boeing loses hundreds of millions, their insurance rates go up and their sales go down.
And yet - they obviously prefer unsafe practices that eventually lead to serious problems down the line. 
I guess that the individual managers simply assume that it will not happen on their watch and that in the meantime they get bonuses for supposedly meeting production goals.
Stockholders should sue the company.
In fact - there should be a parallel set of safety inspectors who report to stockholders, not managers and not the FAA.Long time ago, in the late seventies early eighties the motto in Boeing was "Quality can not be controled. It has to be build in".
It seems this no longer true.
A pity.The rot of short-term profit-maximization at any cost has slowly crept into the aircraft industry where quality standards have been extreme since the founding of the modern industry until wealth-seekers slowly took over the industry. For all of the six-sigma, CE and other standards that have evolved to strive for quality, there are profit-maximizers who try to make a few extra bucks by taking shortcuts. American business culture needs a rebuild. What happened to making a reasonable profit on a high quality product?This is the end result stemming from a lack of oversight,  regulations and enforcement.  This is what happens when the government compromises with corporations who complain that regulations and oversight amount to too much red tape. This is what it looks like  when the government caves to corporations adamant that safety is too honerous for conducting business.

Sacrificing safety for profit never ends well.  And we now have two new tragedies to reminds us of that.I only want to fly on a Union manufactured plane. Even if the ticket costs more.Some weeks ago, as the world grounded the first Boeing jet, it was predicted how severely the world in general would take the refusal by Boeing to hew to international standards and concerns with the same seriousness as the world beyond US borders.
Now, all I can say is that American industry and politics have made the world safe for U.S. Greatness.
 How many more crashes of US planes, and collapsing trade practices, shown to be mostly hustle-not muscle-will it take for the entire country to dissolve into a puddle of greasy,  warm goo-the Trumpian equivalent of "Greatness".
      m braun
NYCAsking "whether profits sometimes trumped safety" is easily answered.

Capitalism is based on profit, and profit always trumps everything.I understand that Mr Trump is now providing - free of charge - his expertise to Boeing, helping out by sharing his overflowing wisdom. 
Is there anything our Chief Engineer cannot accomplish? 

He's most likely still charging too much.There is an old axiom, which I love.  It says that 'integrity' is what you do when no one is looking.

Now, I would not wish to impugn Boeing or any company based on one newspaper story, a biased one at that.  But given the anecdotal evidence I'm hearing about the current state of American business, it would seem that we have a growing population of workers no longer concerned with the integrity of their work.  

From the Operating Room of your local hospital, where surgeons have been known to text and  take phone calls, even recording videos of themselves twerking and rapping while you're under the knife, to engineers and architects so bereft of knowledge and skill that they can't even design a pedestrian bridge without fear of it collapsing, it seems that the quality of 'integrity' today is at a low ebb.

Imagine the level of a mind that would litter on a freshly-built airplane, much less the integrity of an individual whom would create dangerous work scenarios that could conceivably affect the lives of thousands.

And we wonder why American companies off-shore their production to Asia?I strongly believe this is a direct systemic flaw and effect of American turbo-capitalism, which places corporate profits far above damage to security, environment or health. Not that the communist system is any better, both are materialistic rather than humanistic.When there are more public issues such as dangerous experiences with Boeing airplanes in commercial service, the whole Boeing business model will self destruct. Time to reintroduce quality and hire union employees . Who does the CEO of Boeing think he is kidding with repeated tv statements about Boeing putting safety first? Maybe The animals in the Central Park Zoo being promised a home in the Wild? Time as the meerkats said in the film Madagascar 1, for ‘plan B’I've worked in both union and non-union plants in the chemical industry. For the most part, management gets the workers they disserve, union or non-union. In opening a new plant in South Carolina, Boeing needed to worry about transferring the safety and quality culture from Seattle to the new plant. That's a big part of my job as an expat, to bring my company's US safety culture to the new plant in China. That means that safety is the first topic every morning. As a manager, I sometimes have to push workers to spend more money on safety supplies, rather than get by with marginal equipment, not the other way around. lf Boeing's managers say "follow the safety rules," but then only talk about cost, they will get people killed. Unfortunately, it sounds like some of what made Boeing great had already been lost when management moved to Chicago.The machinist and engineer culture of Boeing in Seattle is what created the company it's excellent reputation. Then it was overtaken by the corporate mentality. The irrational drive to punish union workers for wanting a larger share of the pie is the deep root of these recent deaths.

It is typical hubris of the financial elite to view workers as interchangeable and expendable. They are not.There is a declining in manufacturing capabilities in the US during the past 40 years across different industry. The defective work in Boeing may be just another example of that continuing deterioration.  Apple computer has attempted in vain to produce IPhone domestically before moving offshore is another example.Having worked in an aviation industry in a not so advanced country, for nearly four decades, I find the article very informative but shocking to say the least. 

We used to worship Boeing for it masterly design and advanced manufacturing technology. Now after going through the write feels like the God that failed.

That the company resorted to highly questionable soul crushing tactics as an employee describes “Little incentive to do a good job resulting in low motivation among some employees, extreme resistance to change at many levels”.

Seems to me it’s not Boeing on trial but the very system of American capitalism is being exposed to naked glare of adverse publicity.

If Boeing wants to win back huge trust flying public had it ought to realise the truth in the dictum that  “Money can buy you a fine dog, but only love can make him wag his tail”This article reminds me of my last employer, a large chemical company.  They instilled a culture similar to what this report describes when I retired.  Namely--'rush rush and we will fix up the deficiencies later'.  I suspect the philosophy was copied from the similar high tech work ethic.  What's different is lives are directly at stake in the aircraft industry.  I understand Boeing's desire to avoid unions because they frequently protect the least competent workers and only look at the seniority system.  However, the allegations outlined in this article need to be investigated to the fullest by impartial outsiders.  If proven true, Boeing needs to become the poster child for what happens when greed overcomes ethics.This is it then - The US government will impose new and hefty tariffs on European made aeroplanes.This is because we have no strong unions to off set the rush for profits that benefit more of the wealthy through stock ownership and extraordinary high incomes of the upper echelons of these corporation. Every company that is deemed needed for the nation should be unionized and the unions should be fair and equitable institutions that gives checks and balances to these companies. Corporations should be judged on a scale of 1 to 10 by a commission set up by the government consisting of experts in economics, labor,whistleblower investigators,etc. A score of 10 is the most greedy a company can get and then they get a tax fine of fifty percent of their profits and corporate pay for high officials and board members are halved.This is just another report on problems at a company that has no concerns about safety or life of its customers, that cheats and lies to increase profits--a pattern that seems to plaque American companies more than ever before, pointing to eroded work-place ethic and degraded moral standards among the owners and the management.  Sad, but not surprising at all.I'm sensitive to the vibration when flying.  Airbus planes seem to have less vibration than Boeing.  I understand Airbus uses more modern manufacturing methods. These issues with Boeing seem to confirm.  Adding a larger engine on an existing fuselage and 'correcting' the results with software to save development time and money as Boeing did with the 737 shows management took shortcuts.  They can not expect any better from their workers.Although not explicitly stated in the article, it's just one more example of an American company that will literally go to any lengths in order to not pay a worker a decent wage.  That blame is also to be shared with the local governments who routinely write blank checks for tax incentives to these global companies.  While I understand it's a complicated situation, the nearly complete eradication of unions is at the heart of why wages in the US (after adjustment for inflation) haven't risen since the early 1980s.  And when individual workers feel they aren't being paid properly, valued and have zero job protections....this can be the result.  

If Boeing sought the best workers by paying top wages, I'm betting they wouldn't be undergoing most of these problems now.  But, what are the chances that the 'bean counters' will try to reconcile their losses with what would have been higher wages?Our critical government agencies that we depend on—

Like the FAA and the FDA and the EPA—

MUST be well-funded, well-staffed, and FREE of industry compromise.In Boeing's early days in Charleston I listened to an aquaintance tell of his anxiety over his position as a manager of a production team now that Boeing had bought out the local aeronatics co for whom he worked.
He often told of the differences in quality, the pressures placed on he and his colleagues to a) hurry production with their still in training techs and b) to certify sections as completed.
Of inspections that brought curses from the "bean counters" who flew in as visiting inspectors (FAA?) arrived and  inspected sections that were subsequently covered in "tags" for errors. 
The Boeing guys hated to see those stickers/tags.
He and the remaining older workforce were under a good deal of pressure to take a buy out since they made more money than the $15/hour earned by the new workforce they were training.
After a couple of years the pressure was such his health suffered and he took retirement.
He spoke of so much waste, a refusal to do adequate quality inspections,  the inability to get the correct parts on time, and production shortfalls from the mistakes of the still unskilled labor under a punishing schedule.
His fears instilled in me the certainty I would never fly in those planes.
I can attest to the waste back then as well: one day my son brought home some beautiful recycled blue glass from a tour his class had of a plant that had just received tons of glass from Boeing, someone had ordered the wrong specifications for the airplane windows..."All factories deal with manufacturing errors, and there is no evidence that the problems in South Carolina have led to any major safety incidents. The Dreamliner has never crashed..."

So...Let's not forget that Donald Trump recently nominated Boeing senior executive Patrick Michael Shanahan to the Secretary of Defense job. Among his responsabilities at Boeing: manufacturing operations and supplier management functions. Only the best, right?The FAA should have discovered these problems long before either the whistleblowers or the New York Times did.  But it seems that the agency is understaffed, overloaded, and under pressure from the aircraft industry to allow defects and potentially dangerous practices.  

I would thus recommend that the Commerce Department..

1) Double or triple the FAA staff.  

2) Double the salaries of the inspectors along with their training budget.  

The additional funds can come from increased fines levied for violations.The stories about shoddy production at the South Carolina plant have been out there for some time. It's like so much else these days - action will only be taken if the body count gets high enough to affect shareholder value.Have never worked for Boeing; I'm an old licensed aircraft mechanic (piston and jet engines); have managed Midwest and New England plants for fortune 500 companies with head quarters in both South and North Carolinas.  I'm not surprised of the report, shoddy work, slow workers, complaints.  When visiting in the south for meetings, etc., I was always taken aback of the slow and often "non-caring" attitude of workers in both South and North Carolina.   Often wondered how they ever got things done on time and on budget.Moved production where no unions. They wanted to cut costs. I honestly think this would not have happened at the old Boeing’s  in Seattle. The union and the workers take real pride in their work. Boeing has gone downhill since corporate moved to Chicago.The CEO should just step down and be investigated and possibly charged .  The shareholder should vote him out .It’s egregious behavior to continue to have  profit lead over the public’s safety .Thanks to @AllCommenters and the NYTimes reporters, you have really shone some light on a terrible problem: BOEING AND THE US’ FAILURE TO ASSURE QUALITY AIRCRAFT ARE BEING DELIVERED TO AIRLINES. In Indonesia, the national carrier, Garuda Airlines delivered a stinging righteous report to Boeing, “We Have Lost All Confidence, Cancel Our Orders and Please Arrange to Refund for the One in Our Possession.” 

The 2 Boeing crashes are the dead canaries in the mines for the flying industry. BMW has its world's largest plant in the South & appears to be doing OK but a car carrying 1-5 people on the ground is a world away from an aircraft at 35,000 feet carrying far over 150 people AND capable of falling and taking a skyscraper filled with people down with it.

The question that is roaring for an answer is: WILL BOEING, GOVTS AND ALL BUSINESS LEARN ANYTHING FROM THIS? Will any of the movers and shakers take a serious look at how rushes to meet quarterly financial demands really produce a good solid product and good returns over the cycles? Will they learn to listen to whistle-blowers to save long term money and even human lives? Will they invest in upgrading personnel as well as equipment. Educated, healthy workers are a great asset for any company. Sadly, the US South does not provide this.

For me, this is personal, I was a Boeing flyer, now I just stop flying.We'll see what happens when Boeing starts replacing its mid-size aging 757 and 767s. American Airlines and Boeing pretty much run the U.S. commercial aviation industry.  And whatever specifications American Airlines wants the others follow suit. The airline business model is greed at any and all costs."debris left on planes" - I recall, that on the first manned space mission, the Astronauts described manufacturing debris floating around inside the capsule, as they soared beyond the pull of Earth's gravity field.

Apparently, this defect is an industry standard.Boeing, one of the most profitable companies in the world and forming the largest chunk of the DJIA (for now) would rather nickel and dime their non-union workers in Carolina than have better paid, more capable, union workers in Washington.How can consumers and travelers find out if a plane they are traveling on was manufactured in Seattle or Charleston?  I'd want to know next time I step foot in one.American car companies have been struggling to sell their cars abroad for years.  It all started with shoddy cheap construction, produced as fast as possible and with little respect for quality and durability - all at the direction of the non-engineer bean counters in their skyscraper offices, literary with their heads in the clouds.  It was: sell sell sell!  in the domestic market.  Now finally the US is building competitive and quality cars again yet is still having trouble selling them abroad.  All due to the fact that they lost their reputation and it takes decades to earn it back again.  Will Boeing go this way?  I hope not.The pressure for quarterly deadlines at the executive level, is pervasive. An effective measure? Have the bean counters in Chicago routinely and randomly be selected to take part in production test flights. Let’s see if they’re willing to look the other way when their own hides are literally at stake. Kudos to the technical staff who are righteously standing up for quality and accountability. As recent developments illustrate it, the consequences all too real, immediate, and tangible to be explained away by a talking head in a suit. Complacency and half measures have simply no place in the aviation industry.Since the Dems abandoned the working class starting with NAFTA and China entering the WTO, manufacturing across the country has suffered immeasurably.  God knows the Republicans won’t help  in this area.  The Dems abandoned the working class in favor of Silicon Valley and hedge funds.  Now they are worried about which bathrooms people use and giving free stuff to people.  No one stands up for working people in this country and the quality shows.  We have to compete with those high quality products from China...I am distressed about this article for several reasons. It’s fair comment to explore problems with other Boeing planes after the 737 Max crashes, but I can’t tell from this report if Dreamliner construction is more or less problematic than other aircraft or manufacturers (did the reporters look into comparable issues with Airbus). More distressing is why the New York Times did not add a lengthy note reported in full by CNBC from Brad Zaback, VP and GM for Boeing’s 787 program:
He claims the newspaper declined an invitation to visit the S.C. plants and did not include full quotes from at least four airlines expressing support for the Dreamliner.
I hold the newspaper in the highest regard for its record of investigative reporting, now more than ever. But the memo from Zaback is an inexcusable omission, and it should be added prominently to this report.The dictates of capitalism are such that profit must supercede safety by the margin of whatever the market will bear. If Boeing suffers the market's retaliation in loss of sales, that's capitalism's answer to the 500 or so who lost their lives because of the malfeasance between the FAA and Boeing. This particular brand is a variant of the crony capitalism that infects the financial sector.
FAA regulators who get personally close to their regulatees tend to diminish their zeal to go by the book.
As long as the profit motive is the heartbeat of capitalism, cosumers (of the products, not the equities) will undergo harm, suffer, or die when products fail.This 10th Circuit opinion seems relevant to this discussion: <a href="https://tinyurl.com/y3m3ml46" target="_blank">https://tinyurl.com/y3m3ml46</a>Several commenters have mentioned "FOD". It has its own Website:

<a href="https://fodnews.com/fod-defined" target="_blank">https://fodnews.com/fod-defined</a>/

Excerpt:

FOD has been part of accidents and unscheduled maintenance reports since the earliest days of flight. Propeller nicks, tire damage, and fabric tears go way back. But the problem of foreign objects really came into focus with the introduction of the jet engine. FOD includes loose hardware, tools, parts, pavement fragments, catering supplies, building materials, rocks, sand, pieces of luggage, pens, coins, badges, hats, soda cans, paper clips, rags, trash, paperwork and even wildlife. Anything that can find its way into an aircraft engine or flight control mechanisms is a recipe for foreign object damage. And, this damage can result in anything from minor repairs to catastrophic events.I hate to fly.  From the virtual cavity search by the TSA to seating accommodations that resemble the "how many people can you stuff into a VW and close the windows and doors" craze of the mid '60's, the entire experience is designed to insult your sense of privacy, modesty and personal space.

In-flight meals, in the main cabin?  Peanuts and stale crackers.  If that.

Need to use the "facilities?"  Uh, not while we're in the middle of a two-hour wait on the flight line for our plane's turn to take off.

And now, we find the aircraft we're caged in are not considered airworthy by the very men and women who built them?  Oh, dear Lord (and I'm atheist), can I just get out and walk?Not sure who said but “Boeing made airplanes, McDonnell Douglas makes money”. Guess who runs the show? (Despite the branding...)I fly a 787 every couple of weeks.  I have observed that they are not aging well.  It is like you are on a 20 year old plane.This is very surprising and concerning, I am glad I have not purchased some stock.Boeing fought the the machinist union, this is what you get.While corporate negligence is damaging to our country and must be reported, we must keep things in perspective.


In 2017 we had:

0
American deaths from airline accidents

39,773
American deaths from guns

21,000,000
American health plans threatened by ACA repeal

324,000,000
Americans threatened by climate change


======================

1. <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-aviation-safety/2017-safest-year-on-record-for-commercial-passenger-air-travel-groups-idUSKBN1EQ17L" target="_blank">https://www.reuters.com/article/us-aviation-safety/2017-safest-year-on-record-for-commercial-passenger-air-travel-groups-idUSKBN1EQ17L</a>

2. <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/18/us/gun-deaths.html" target="_blank">https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/18/us/gun-deaths.html</a>

3. <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/26/health/obamacare-trump-health.html" target="_blank">https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/26/health/obamacare-trump-health.html</a>

4. <a href="https://www.worldometers.info/world-population/us-population" target="_blank">https://www.worldometers.info/world-population/us-population</a>All this mess goes back to Mcdonnell Douglass Management taking over Boeing, Their culture of bean counters and profits above good quality planes has been evident since the 787 fiasco. Boeing has to get rid of all MD managers and it's culture.In healthcare, safety concerns are similarly dismissed in favor of profit.An unregulated market will drive execs and corps to cut corners as a result of competition. Regulations that are properly enforced, and fear of consequences, are the counterweight against that market pressure. The coverage of the 737 Max makes it evident that the government regulators abdicated their responsibilities to Boeing. Boeing and other corporations could try to protect against short term financial pressures causing executives to take actions that threaten quality, by putting clawback provisions into compensation agreements. But will they realize that they have a sacred trust? Not to mention a longer term market valuation issue.This isn’t just a problem in private industry.

I work for NASA in a Safety group and have had similar negative experiences after speaking out about safety issues. I still raise issues, but doing so usually means a fight with my management. It’s a horrible place to be, but it’s the career I chose. I’m close to leaving it.

Safety often is seen as an impediment to success in a project rather than an essential element of it. Maintaining integrity in my role comes at a cost to my job success and performance reviews, and brings huge stress at work. I can’t maintain it much longer.

The culture that believes rules don’t matter is pervasive in our society, but their erosion in aviation/aerospace is deeply concerning.

Safety only happens with deliberate attention focused on it:  complacency eventually kills.

Some of us still care — like those mentioned in this article — but we’re being beaten down by those focused on other priorities such as costs and schedules.Capitalism run amok. They’re burying the issues (and employees that raise the concerns) without proper recognition and resolution and now they’re getting rid of inspectors but driving output up? This isn’t going to end well. 

Boeing was a proud American company at one time. It’s been sold out for unreasonable gains now. Airbus is looking like better transportation with each passing day. Will we ever learn?Welcome to the corporate States of America, where regulations  are destroyed by greed and employees are part of the problem.I actually went to the College of Charleston know the area quite well. I left after graduation due to the dearth of job options.

The area is in dire need of business investment other than tourism and bars. I can see why the state would bend over backwards and give tax breaks out the wazoo to get them there. Beggars can't be choosers. A lot of Charleston is still controlled by a few wealthy Southern families that have the local politicians in their pocket. There's a small bubble of middle class professionals in Mt. Pleasant.

SC high schools appeared to produce a lot of students that earned straight A's and never did homework. The reality that they couldn't find skilled employees doesn't surprise me. I'm guessing even their imported tech school grads couldn't remotely compare to people that had been through 4+ year union apprenticeship programs.More junk produced in Lindsey Grahamland.They moved to South Carolina to save a buck. Now they are paying a heavy price and deserve all the bad news and have the blood of over 300 hundred dead passengers on their hands.There was play about this kind of thing: All My Sons, where the owner regrets using defective parts in a plane.

No such remorse today.  Today executives push safety down the list of priorities or push drugs like opioids.  Thousands upon thousands get addicted.  Thousands die.  Executives brought down the US economy with massive fraud.  They are untouched.

El Chapo is in prison.  In the end he didn't know the real means to escape is to get an MBA, wear a suit, and know the right thugs.I'm from Boston and have been living in Charleston for 6 years and I am not surprised. The people here are wonderful, and I also think Boeing is, despite the latest disastrous news, a company to admire. However, in my opinion, the number 1 problem in South Carolina, and Charleston especially, is the utter stupidity and good old boy mentality of the local politicians. It contaminates everything, from the terrible schools to the lack of decent infrastructure to this sort of laziness at Boeing. Fortunately there are a lot of outsiders moving to Charleston, and this year is an election year to replace the disastrous Charleston Mayor Tecklenburg and a lot of the inept City Council. I hope we'll start to see a shift towards smarter, better politicians. Until then, stories like this will continue - it's all related to the rotten core that still hangs on in Charleston politics.The subtext of the article is that unionized workers (‘teammates’) are more productive, higher quality producing and less triggered to have to whistle blow or sue. Mind blowing.If it's a Boeing, I'm not flying.I'm so glad I have ended my flying travels. I will never fly on a Boeing again. Greed. Plain and simple.I understand what happened with the 737 max aircraft, the control flaw and how pilots were not trained in it real time... huge lapse, many precious lives lost.
I have known many Boeing employees (in Seattle and Everette) and all of them complained of NC site being not up-to par. 

But this... 
I’ve flown 787 so many times. If this is correct, then how come there have not been a major disaster.... or it is just waiting to happen?? 
Aerospace industry simply doesn’t work this way, one small error and people die!
Lots of people, not few.If you are paying your CEO $30,000,000. a year, you have to cut corners somewhere.Kevin McAllister, thanks for the corporate doublespeak. You should be aware that when a corporate hack spews nonsense like that, the immediate inclination is to disbelieve him. Fire whatever firm is providing you with media training.

And nice try, pinning responsibility on the workers, in your corporate backhanded way. When problems like this emerge, it is invariably because of systemic management errors. Why don't you say, "I have full faith in management and our risk management strategies"? Because you know your process and risk management are deficient.If it's Boeing, I'm not going.Why non-union workers would not care to do the job right as much as union workers? Because they are not vested with the company. They have no retirement plan nor job protection. You get what you pay for,Thanks for this report!

Any complex process is replete with errors minor and major. Any responsible company knows this, has multiple checks in place, rewards rather than punishes those who document problems, and promotes those who come up with solutions.

For me, key parts of this reportage suggest that the once proud Boeing is not longer a responsible company.

" . . .several former employees said high-level managers pushed internal quality inspectors to stop recording defects . . . superiors penalized her in performance reviews and berated her on the factory floor after she flagged wire bundles rife with metal shavings and defective metal parts that had been installed on planes."this is both depressing and terrifying to anyone who flies regularly.  It did cross my mind when Boeing moved the new plant to South  Carolina that there could be a difference in skilled labor available, but I never imagined union breaking was part of the picture.  What has the country come too. Watch "All my sons" by Arthur Miller; it's all there.Remind me again how unbridled capitalism and deregulation is all we need?Less skilled workers will make more mistakes. That is what it means to be less skilled.

Less skilled workers require more quality control supervision, because they make more mistakes.

That supervision will find problems, and fixing the will cause delays.

Less skilled labor is "cheaper" per hour, but not as much cheaper after you hire the extra supervisors and pay for the extra delays and re-do.

Boeing went to the non-union area to get it cheaper, and now they are cutting corners to keep it cheaper. They say all the right things about quality, but the very existence of the plant there is because that is not true.

Boeing also moved management away from the production, half a continent away. That has an impact. What they don't see, they don't know. What they see is money, not planes.All the more reason why I invest my money, take my time, and ride Amtrak unless I cannot do it due to short-notice, long-distance travel. I reap a big bonus from the welcoming, accommodating service of Amtrak personnel, unlike the airlines who treat their passengers as though they are so many cattle to be prodded into the most seats they can cram into their planes, and then add injury to insult by surcharging for every conceivable "convenience".

This problem by no means is confined to the aerospace industry; I've experienced it in the oil industry, where the geoscientists and engineers who built that business long since have been replaced by MBA's and CPA's. How do you like the way health care has been delivered for the past ten years, where those same business school graduates have usurped the management of your health care from the medical professionals who used to administer it?

My fellow Americans, you conned yourselves if you allowed Donald Trump and the Republicans to con you and shirk their oaths of office by fostering unregulated, free-wheeling capitalism on us. This has nothing to do with pure socialism and its inherent lack of incentives. It has everything to do with striking an effective balance between reasonable social accountability and efficient control of the inbred excesses that inevitably arise from purely profit-driven motives. 

If we do no better than generate Twitterized government and texted communications, we deserve nothing better than what we have.Well! That certainly answers MY question.

Boeing isn't worth $360 a share, not with manufacturing problems on this scale.

The opening of the markets Monday should see some justice done.It's almost as if corporate welfare and unregulated capitalism has resulted in self destructive behaviors in search of short term profit.If a plane should one day go down because of debris left behind during the manufacturing process or stray metal shavings in the vicinity of electrical wiring, imagine how hard it would be to figure out the cause.   Airlines that continue to accept planes from Boeing with these issues are just as culpable as Boeing for the problems.  They continue taking delivery on these planes in order to maintain their flight schedules while paying public lip service to their confidence in the planes.  The flying public and the flight crews are the ones being put in jeopardy.  Anyone who thinks that that is an exaggeration only need only consider the two 737 Max crashes and the 300+ lives lost.I used to work for McDonnell Aircraft Company in manufacturing support, long before it became part of Boeing. I spent time on the assembly line. My job included suggesting changes in design or production. Where quality was at issue, I was unsuccessful because quality was foremost. We were indoctrinated with quality awareness programs such as “Zero Defects.” At over Mach 1, we well understood “For the want of a nail… ”What has happened?Those of you that think Airbus planes are better, when I worked for the airlines we mechanics called them Scarebuses. When I first worked on the A300-600 I was not impressed with the systems design nor the quality of the workmanship. I was up close and personal with these aircraft, I repaired them. I saw much more than the cockpit and cabin.
As far as Boeing buying Douglas, the joke is Douglas bought Boeing with Boeing’s money. The Douglas management were the ones that took the helm.
We had another name for the DC-10; Crowdkiller. MD-11 we called the Scud after the missile that you never knew where it would land and how many pieces it would be in.
But remember this, the #1 reason for airline crashes is the people in the cockpit, not the airplane.Fox guards hen house. Hens rebel.Dear JSK,
After 40 years in the airline industry and flying every Boeing and MD jetliner ever produced, l too was hired at Boeing to teach their future 787 customer pilots. 
In contrast to my two former visits as a customer pilot to Seattle, in the late 60’s and 70’s, l found the place in total shambles!
Incompetence, arrogance and cavalier attitude of the upper management towards safety was unbelievable. Highly experienced retired airline training Captains from major airlines like United and US Air were targeted. We had already lost our pensions to other greedy CEOs. But ironically we were hired mainly to destroy the unionized pilots and instructor work force in Seattle!
We watched the vicious attacks from the boys in Chicago on their long time highly experienced, but union labor in the Pacific NW. 
Some of us had predicted the current chaos at Boeing, during the early production of the Dreamliner. 
It is no surprise to most of us who saw the greed taking over safety at Boeing!The system is broken, top management is responsible for the system.  Inspection won't fix it. this is not a new concept:

'Inspection does not improve the quality, nor guarantee quality. Inspection is too late. The quality, good or bad, is already in the product. As Harold F. Dodge said, “You can not inspect quality into a product.”'

<a href="https://blog.deming.org/2012/11/inspection-is-too-late-the-quality-good-or-bad-is-already-in-the-product" target="_blank">https://blog.deming.org/2012/11/inspection-is-too-late-the-quality-good-or-bad-is-already-in-the-product</a>/Soon our flight safety will match our good friend, Russia.Time to get a motorhome for safe surface travellingNot enough attention has been given to McNerny's tenure at Boeing, which included the 737Max and early Charleston plant.  Like the other destructive spawn of GE's Jack "Neutron Jack" Welch, he helped destroy Boeing's culture, just as he almost ran 3M into the ground in search of short term profit.  Meanwhile, Jeff Immelt was busy eviscerating GE, while Nardelli took a chain saw to Home Depot's reputation (leaving with 200 million).  More needs to be written on the business world's toxic obsession with Welch and the enormous price the country has paid.Excellent reporting.  However, as a flying customer who has been around the world and back on the 787 multiple times scary to read.  I worry this iconic brand has a culture problem throughout organization and its effects are beginning to be seen on its products.  I wrote in CustomerThink that a big problem is Boeing has been so focused on being a Global B2B Aerospace Brand, they forgot about what makes a B2C brand great.  One of those factors is not involving the end-customer.  It has been very evident post the unfortunate 737 MAX crashes and the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System updates.  Usually the airlines take the brunt, but Boeing can no longer behave this way. <a href="http://bit.ly/BW_CustomerThink_Boeing737MAX" target="_blank">http://bit.ly/BW_CustomerThink_Boeing737MAX</a>Freedom in America: freedom to die in a plane crash or from contaminated food, or from a chemical explosion, or to be shot to death by someone who is angry with the world, all so some wealthy plutocrats can grab even more money than they already have.Boeing is eliminating about 100 quality control positions? You have got to be kidding me.Madness. Taking one of the jewels of American industry and tossing it down the drain. Boeing executives should be held responsible for those who died in the two crashes. They should be in prison. Of course they won’t be, any more than bank presidents were when they almost flushed the world economy. The oligarchs have won. Everybody else has lost.Nothing matters to the folks in charge except share value.  I asked for George C. Marshall and I got Ed Nixon.Maximize profit, cheapest labor, speed over quality.  No pesky regulations. 
GOP's dreams come true. 
When do our brahmins admit this isn't the way?Boeing shut down its commercial plant in Wichita, KS in 2005, and its military plant in 2013, because “costs were too high”.  They opened the SC plant around the same time. Boeing had been the largest private employer in Kansas, and had been operating in Wichita since 1927. They had a skilled, multi-generational workforce. Guess you get what you pay for.'“Boeing South Carolina teammates are producing the highest levels of quality in our history,” Kevin McAllister, Boeing’s head of commercial airplanes, said'

'highest levels' seems unusual when used with 'quality'

seems to me it's more usually associated with 'risk'

as in 'highest levels of risk' ...You get what you pay for, bottom line. By moving some production to save money by using non union workers, they potentially have cost themselves millions or billions because of substandard work performed by the people they hired. Shame on Boeing, they should have known better. Profits over people is a huge problem in this country that needs to be addressed.an american company putting profits above safety?!

well, knock me over with a feather.

lawsuits are probably included in the budget as the price for doing bidness.How would one, anyone feel about Boeing writing the software to control our land based strategic missile launch sequence and verification in all those silos out west?Outsourced to non-union labor with no experience building airliners in South Carolina. And then Boeing had quality control problems. 

Well, no problem as long as they are covered up. And think of the profits!Boeing has much blood on its hands, as does the F.A.A. 

This episode is another stark reminder of the shortcomings of pure capitalism. Airlines shouldn’t be permitted largely to self-regulate.I don't fly often, and when I do, it's abroad.  

Boeing's shift of focus from engineering excellence to the bottom line disgusts me.  There's only one way to respond, and that's with my wallet.  I've never cared about the brand of plane I've flown in before, but from now on, it's Airbus.The NYT has been so on it lately! Great job!I observe that when management becomes separate from manufacturing people and the manufacturing plant, production problems become easier to ignore.  Moving the plant to another state and getting rid of the union makes worker complaints go away.  Taking advantage of big tax incentives in a bidding war for the plant is just icing on the cake.  Refer to Amazon for a recent example.

As a new employee in a 1970's plant I noticed a man in a suit was looking over my shoulder watching me work.  He asked a few detailed questions about the process.  Very good questions that demonstrated his understanding and put me on notice that he knew more about it as I knew.  He nodded, said thanked me, and moved on.  After he was out of site a fellow employee advised me he was the CEO.   I can't imagine an MBA with a finance background asking questions of similar intelligence or interest.  That's why China has become manufacturing heaven for US corporate management.Would it be too much for Boeing to adopt the motto, Safety Before Profits?"Workers at a 787 Dreamliner plant in South Carolina have complained of defective manufacturing, debris left on planes and pressure to not report violations."

Isn't that why Boeing setup plant there? A pliable work force without unions to protect a whistle blower or demand higher wages, not to mention a corporate friendly state government that will fight to keep it that way.A huge issue is that the FAA lacks the experienced inspection workforce, expertise or budget to certify an aircraft’s airworthiness. They rely a lot on manufacturers’ and carriers’ self-certification and paperwork and assurance, and just check to make sure that the paperwork is properly completed.Easy solution for flyers. Put a small, but easily recognized Charleston-built symbol on the plane.  Perhaps the Confederate battle flag. And of course, high up on the tail, for post impact visibility.  Might even boost morale at the plant, giving an image of competition with Seattle.Savage capitalism at its best. This is not just true of Boeing, but the nation's railroads, water supply, and soon our meat and poultry supply.
I have given up hope that my fellow citizens will ever understand the importance of organized labor, and independent and competent federal regulators who are duty-bound to oversee such industries  on behalf of the American People. This is a very disappointing story about a great American company. Thank you for your reporting it to the readership.Shutting out the unions was Boeing's fatal mistake.  Union members built safe, reliable planes.NYT's team deserves a pat on the back to bring out such a
vivid report describes the 'Compromise on Safety in the production shop floor' of Boeing plant. The entangled metal shavings with other revolving parts of the plane is a good source of ignition and the fine dust of metal debris stuck on the crevices of the moving parts are a source of incendiary to an invisible dust explosion when they absorb the heat. 
Why don't Boeing think of handing over QA to a third party, an agency in Japan and also HSE to an agency in UK to get
rid of complacency or compromise on QA & Safety' before a flight put into service?The MBA culture that dominates American corporations has placed profits above the quality of whatever these corporations produce or the services they provide. Boeing is no exception. 

Allowing  Boeing to regulate itself under these circumstances has failed us. It's time to reverse decades of irresponsible 
 deregulation of the aerospace and airline industry.All of these comments and accusations are worrisome to this non-Boeing employee who is a very frequent flier.  How can one tell which 787s are made in Everett and which in Charleston? Is it by serial number?                                                                                                  On the other hand, in Boeing's defense, to what extent are these comments designed to denigrate the company for opening up in a right-to-work (i.e., non-union) state?Putting the bean counters in charge was an epic mistake.Industry as a whole hires cheaper foreign labor, even when it comes to engineers. As long as the bottom line, maximum profits, are all that matters to corporations, we will continue our decline to the bottom. Is government regulation the only answer? No, I think an overall limit on profit-making, say 18% is a law we must have. That's enough for anyone. That will allow prices to be lowered, labor paid fairly. I just met someone today who works from 9-9 at a Mattress Firm store, who either gets $12 an hour, or his commissions, but never both. Now since when does a salesman not get a base pay PLUS commissions? And while Target increases its base pay, it eliminates cashier jobs, trying to force customers to only use self-checkout, to actually do the cashier's job, looking up prices and all. This corporate conduct is outrageous. They have no moral or ethical sense. It has to change, and fast.Most important plane in a generation? No. The Boeing 777 was introduced in 1995. It was the last new aircraft design Boeing ever made that was actually good and solid. Then the merger with McDonnell Douglas happened and Boeing went down the drain. First with the 787, and then the 737 Max. Who is going to trust Boeing from now on?Terrifying for the ordinary passenger. Are we now supposed to try to find out where the airplane was made when making a reservation? Or only fly on Airbuses?It appeared during the recent 737 issue the CEO did not seem to be interested until the stock price began to dip. I understand his function is to maximize the stock price, I wonder whose function it is to see that planes are built correctly. If they aren't, the CEO will still receive plenty of money while apologizing for needless deaths.Regarding the 737 tragedies, I keep reading things like the one I read in this article -- "Boeing is now facing questions about whether the race to get the Max done, and catch up to its rival Airbus, led it to miss safety risks in the design, like an anti-stall system that played a role in both crashes." Isn't the real problem the decision to stick new, larger engines on an older plane, which in turn has the effect of making it want fly up and up and into a stall? Put another way, the 737 Max is an airplane that naturally wants to crash, right? However good the anti-stall software gets, it seems silly to ignore the physics of the problem. If problem gets declared fixed by changes to the anti-stall system, won't we'll still be left with an airplane that naturally wants to crash--and only doesn't crash because of some software. I know it's expensive to go back to the drawing board, but the decision makers made a horrible, horrible mistake--which has killed several hundred people. I for one certainly am not going fly American Airlines anymore (which is where I happen to have the most miles), until they abandon the 737 and replace it with a plane whose physics actually want it to fly in a straight line.I imagine Joe Sutter would be deeply saddened today to see what Boeing has turned into. Mr. Sutter pushed for multiple redundancies on the 747. How did we go from multiple redundancies to a single point of failure -- let's use data from one angle of attack sensor instead of two -- undoubtedly a decision made because it is cheaper and easier to implement. Well, how much cheaper was it really in light of the past 8 months? 
Boeing management should consider this article a warning about your practices and priorities. I certainly do not want to read about passengers and crew that perished on a 787, but should it ever happen, we now know the question of where the 787 was built will be asked. Sure, it is easy to say that these claims are made by disgruntled employees, but how do you explain away Qatar or American Airline finding? 
The most appalling fact out of this entire article, I guess saving the best for last, is not only the increase in 787 production from 12 to 14, but the elimination of about 100 quality control position in North Charleston - this simply defies any logic. Rather than address the problem, silence it?Not to detract from this particular issue with Boeing, but anyone who has had remodeling done in their home knows to keep an eye on workers because they often sweep debris and trash even their food wrappers behind walls or under floors. I have never understood this and have always insisted that they shop vac before they seal things up, and I’ve been met with resistance. 
I don’t understand the thinking behind this pervasive practice. 
The laziness can lead to health and safety issues in your home as well. 
Can some contractor out there please explain the psychology behind this?
Does no one take pride in their work or their craft anymore in this country?A friend (deceased) who piloted B-17s and B-29s during WWII praised Boeing's products for "practically flying themselves."  (For comparison, he'd also flown B-24s, not made by Boeing.)

It's sad if a company that played such an important role in our winning that war is now so obsessed by the bottom line.Interesting, much deserved publicity has been given to Boeing's issues with its commercial jets flying the public but the company has also experienced serious post production flight safety problems with the new KC 46 Pegasus refueling tankers it's been delivering to the U.S. Air Force as well. Quality control has been called into question as factory tools and loose spare parts have been found inside delivered aircraft by Air Force inspectors.Get this: the FAA sent a letter to the Southwest Airlines Mechanic’s Union stating they were causing a safety of flight issue by the mechanics working to the letter of the regulations because of a contract problem with Southwest. I would like to know how grounding a airplane over a safety issue is a airworthiness issue. 
It is obvious that the FAA is in Southwest’s pocket. They also let Southwest defer inspections of the 737 CFM engine fan blades as recommended by CFM. The same engines that the fan blades failed, killing a passenger in flight.
Also note that the airlines all now ship their aircraft overseas for their heavy inspections, where it is cheaper and there is no FAA oversight.
The bean counters don’t care if you live or die, they only care about the bottom line.The workers on the line are are the first line of safety in the air. Without a strong union, a real union- not a lapdog to management- to back them up when they see corners cut or excessive pressure to just get the product out the door, they are powerless to protect the flying public from the greed of rapacious management who can see nothing besides dollars in their wallets.This is not a Boeing exclusive problem. Modern management philosophies have applied a one size fits all solution to American industry; treating the manufacturing industry as if its needs are interchangeable with fast food and retail.

Truth be told, cost of labor is a small fraction of manufacturing expenses in a well streamlined assembly, automation often pays off as a quality improvement tool, it almost never saves on labor. My company could double our labor rates and it would marginally impact the cost of our products. You wouldn't think this was the case, given how the news and many CEOs talk about keeping wages low as a cost cutting tool. As a nation we have been ignoring how costly it is to have an unmotivated workforce that has no incentive to produce parts or services of quality.Good old American capitalism. Profits over quality. Profits over people, even if some die.

With regard to the plane crashes, would any car manufacturer sell a car without brakes?

Gonna fly AirBus, if I can.This article and the comments make my hair curl. As they say, "What goes up comes down " Relentless vigilance is needed for excellence as well as freedom.No domestic competition. Profit over safety. Safety systems without redundancy. Non union employees. Playing catch up with Airbus. This is what happens when profits trump everything else. Boeing used to make absolutely phenomenal aircraft like the infamous B-17 Bomber of WWII. Now I won’t even fly on one.Back in the 50s Boeing was famous for its quality. Three of every control line, of including one strictly manual linkage.

Then the top management decided they should go to Chicago, central to all the plants they were building. And too far away from any to have that  XO or SGM type who somehow pops up everywhere when he is not supposed to be there and sees all. And who listens to the machinists and fasteners and asks good questions.

Not anymore. Finance guys want their quick bonuses and cut corners. They are long gone when the great Boeing reputation for quality is gone.

France, the last time I asked, by mandate allows a glass of eminent at lunch for everyone. That is a killer for machinists who have to do the ultra fine precision micrometer machining. And now people die.

And now, why build three fold control features when they are rarely needed. Besides, the competition does not ‘waste’ money on extravagant safety.

And that is why Seattle machinists only fly on certain planes.Another investigative piece that matches the facts of this article.

Broken Dreams

<a href="https://youtu.be/rvkEpstd9os" target="_blank">https://youtu.be/rvkEpstd9os</a>

“This is a major project by the Al Jazeera Investigative Unit focusing on the 787 “Dreamliner”, the flagship passenger jet of the Boeing Company.
 
Our journalism reveals the deeply-held safety concerns of current and former Boeing engineers, who in some cases fear to fly on the 787, the plane they build.
 
We uncover allegations of on-the-job drug use, quality control problems and poor workmanship.”
 
We explore the roots of the battery problems that led to the plane’s grounding due to safety concerns for three months from January 2013.”Pretty sure this one will get lost in the shuffle, but the Boeing CEO proudly appointed some outsiders to this magic new committee . . . they will examine the company's processes, new programs, policies and procedures for designing and manufacturing---so far, so good!
1.  An Admiral with a wealth of background, experience, expertise, integrity, etc.  A fine choice . . . but keep reading.
2.  Somebody from Amgen.  A biopharma guy to examine commercial airplanes?
3.  CEO of Duke Energy.  Ohhhhhhh NOOOOOOOO.
4.  A former Allstate CEO.  ALLSTATE???No surprise here. Boeing like all bloated multibillion dollar companies operate like this.

After the fully 2 preventable recent crashes, the Boeing fan club here on NYT comments declared it must of been the pilots.

Yeah no, just another executive board room that thinks only in profit, lives are expendable and history is proof of it.If they can’t get their workers to do something as simple as stop leaving tools on completed planes, why should we believe the planes have been assembled properly? It’s al of a piece.Who needs regulator's or professional oversight? Not Republican's. Let's just let all these Capitalist's police themselves. What could possibly go wrong..........for them! Too bad some folks died horrific when our plane crashed. We'll make more.Same thing happened to American car manufacturers in the ‘70s through 2000. 

30 years producing junk.Perhaps we should just make drugs here in the US. Leave serious manufacturing to other countries where people get paid well and thus perform well.There was a documentary about this several years ago, but everyone ignored it.The thing that all these overpaid MBA types who have taken over almost every company in America don't seem to get is that their greed and dishonesty over the past couple of decades have created a huge and growing audience of cynics in America and around the world who by this point don't believe a word they say.I’ve flown with United Airlines, American, and Delta for much of my 69 years. But over the past ten years my wife and I have flown
almost exclusively with JetBlue on their Airbus jets. We will NEVER fly on a Boeing MAX-anything or Nightmareliner 787. What a shame that Boeing capitulated to the stock market rather than the safety of those who work on or travel on their defective junk.No surprise here. Boeing like all bloated multibillion dollar companies operate like this.

After the fully 2 preventable recent crashes, the Boeing fan club here on NYT comments declared it must of been the pilots.

Yeah no, just another executive board room that thinks only in profit, lives are expendable and history is proof of it.Big surprise, take the work from a proven workforce in Washington and send to South Carolina where there's nothing but pig & chicken farms and moonshine stills. What could possibly go wrong?Boeing is the fifth largest defense contractor in the world. Maybe their ethos of creating corpses is spilling over into their passenger fleet."Boeing had trouble finding qualified workers for its North Charleston plant," but, hey, it was cheaper labor, so the lower educational level and professional training of the available South Carolina work force was a matter of no consequence to Boeing. Boeing also has benefited from South Carolina's hostility towards unionized labor, which in the case of the North Charleston plant translates into more profits, not to mention tax-payer paid incentives to draw Boeing--and many other manufacturers--to the South with its pre-New Deal ideological prejudices. 

Nothing about this situation bodes well for airlines safety.  Boeing no longer appears to be the company it once was.Another Eclipse Jet story: I was working there as a contractor when the FAA MIDO office from the LA region arrived to inspect them for a production certificate. The manufacturer needs to prove they can duplicate the same quality into each aircraft, otherwise each and every one requires FAA inspection. The feds went nuts when Eclipse was no where near ready for the inspection and they failed it. Result, another MIDO office from the D.C. region came in the following week and rubber stamped the inspection. Big Microsoft money talks and gets results in Washington.Based on what we know so far, which is  plenty, it's incredible that the company is still limping along with the same lineup of top executives and board members. This situation calls for a shareholders' revolt.This is not confidence inspiring. I only wish the employees who were the whistle blowers took their stories to the press much earlier --- lives could have been saved. Boeing is a true disappointment. I used to have a lot of respect for Boeing -- that respect is now gone forever.So Boeing chooses a location because it's non-union and tells staff to avoid bringing in union employees from Everett -all of course for greater profit. Or rather - greater *short-term* profit. This is the only criterion these days. 

Well, how's that going for you, Boeing? Your reputation is your single most important asset, and you've done your best to ruin it.Who manufactures aircraft besides Boeing?  After reading this I want to fly on aircraft where the safety concerns are taken seriously.  When I looked up the alternatives I could not find much.   I hope someone takes on the challenge and develops an alternative company that values safety.  I would pay more to travel on a better plane.At least look into the quality of the S Carolina workforce. They’re paid less than their union counterparts in my state. Might their work reflect that? How hard is it to vacuum up debris?This story is a revelation to me because I always held Boeing in very high esteem.

It seems the culture in upper management now is to prioritize profits over safety. Cut out highly skilled union employees, hide defects and rush products to market. When building aircraft, safety is the most important concern because a malfunction could kill hundreds of people. 

A change of management is definitely in order. Perhaps the downward market valuation will force a change.The South Carolina Boeing plant pays significantly less than the Washington ones. More than once I was offered a job as a final inspector, the last Boeing to see the airplane before the customer took delivery. The pay for a experienced (40 years) ex-airline aircraft mechanic was insulting. Of course I turned it down.
I’ve seen this before, I worked as a contract mechanic when the Eclipse jet started production. The direct employees were hired mostly from a company that built school buses in Albuquerque. Management apparently didn’t see the difference between building buses and aircraft. My last week there I watched someone with all of three months working on aircraft who was not a certified aircraft mechanic, puzzling how to rig the flight controls from a hand written set of instructions. Primary flight controls. I attempted to explain how to “walk” cables and show him how to use rig pins. He looked at me like I was speaking Latin.
You get what you pay for, especially now, as the wages have not kept pace with inflation in the aircraft industry, many people with decades of experience have left the field. I have.
Also consider that in manufacturing of aircraft, FAA certification of the people building the aircraft is not required.Boeing also seems to be having problems with its NASA contract. Seems they need a good solid course correction to focus more on quality and better management. Oh, but one of their guys is acting Secretary at DoD...guess image over substance matters more these days. What a sad fall for a once amazing company.Boeing doesn't care about anything but money.  They pay lip service to quality, and safety.
I feel sorry public and the rank and file workforce.. because they will be the ones hurt in the end.I worked in aviation my whole life and witnessed the management versus engineering and management versus quality control up close and personal. When management wins the product and people pay the price. MBAs are trained to keep the company stock price going up, it's their only job and the only way to climb the ladder. Companies don't build anything according to business schools they exist only to pay dividends to shareholders. I humbly disagree.Just about all that can be said here...has been said.   I choose to reflect, momentarily, on the glory days of Boeing :  The days, (not known to many here) of ROSIE THE RIVITER...the women who assembled the warplanes during WWII, when our men were at war in Europe and the Far East.  Without the basic skills of these women assembly-workers, the B-17 FLYING FORTRESS, one of the most indestructible airframes of all times would not have brought an end to the European war to a successful ending.  Their contribution to our Freedoms must NEVER be forgotten !!!one thing I get from this story for sure. I ain't flying in no nightmareliner.This link is for a dateline Australia show .

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vWxxtzBTxGU" target="_blank">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vWxxtzBTxGU</a>


It says parts for the 737NG are made to substandard specifications and after 8 years or so corrosion sets in and 3 planes have broken apart while landing due to that corrosion. 

I hope it plays.This is not a big shock.  It is a the result of the Bush Administration's gelding the FAA.  If we want to fix this problem we need another 10,000 FAA inspectors and SERIOUS fines to Boeing for mistakes.  

Are conservatives really happy to trust aircraft manufacturers with the planes the fly?

Just a question.Anybody ready to ride the Boeing rocket and vehicle to the space station, or anywhere else? If I owned Boeing stock, I would dump it. SpaceX seems the way to go.This paragraph: "In North Charleston, the pace of production has quickened. Starting this year, Boeing is producing 14 Dreamliners a month, split between North Charleston and Everett, up from the previous 12. At the same time, Boeing said it was eliminating about a hundred quality control positions in North Charleston." 

So basically, Boeing has learned nothing. I guess it's up to the consumer to teach them. I, for one, will ask for the plane model before I book a flight and reschedule as needed to avoid Boeing aircraft.It all started when they moved building the wings to ChinaReally? Shavings near electrical parts in the second decade of the 2000's? I went to and graduated from an Aviation trade school in NYC in the 1980's. YES 1980's -- and this kind of stuff was known and forbidden then in the almighty FAA manuals and procedures to high schoolers aspiring for Airframe or Powerplant mechanic certifications. Boeing used to be the paragon of American manufacturing. Now, it's just a slave to MBA's with spreadsheets iterating the least possible cost for a nut.This article is a sordid tale of Greed that permeates the executive suites of corporations, where everything-- including the environment and people's lives-- is subordinate to Wall Street investors' insatiable demand for short-term gain. Here the metastatic Greed manifests as relentless corner-cutting and cost-cutting, with potentially disastrous effects.

Government regulators are supposed to act as checks and balances on Greed, overseeing design and production and holding companies accountable for safety and quality standards. And the threat of lawsuits should also provide accountability. But Greed has now undermined those restraints. 

Corporations now own the Republican Party, which has declared government a problem that only relentless deregulation and privatization can solve. To "save taxpayers money," companies now regulate themselves, with a downsized government providing mere rubber-stamp assurance. And the legal system has been undermined with "tort reform," along with mandatory arbitration in the "agreements" companies routinely dictate to consumers. 

Companies are accountable only to shareholders, and only for maximizing short-term gain. Everyone and everything else is expendable. But CEOs enjoy a divine right to exorbitant "compensation" no matter what they do. 

It will likely take a serious disaster, in which many innocent people must die, to make the need for real regulation clear enough to overcome generous campaign contributions that protect Greed.The blind pursuit of profit at any cost is a familiar theme in today's hyper-capitalist corporatism, but it is more ominous with high-end machines like jet planes. 

There is little margin of error there, because after takeoff the only way out of any plane is perfect -- or not at all.

The article describes a busy FAA taking notes and making reports about metal filings out of place and so on. But not a word about the illegal practices made legal by lobbyists, of cramming passengers where they have zero room to follow the FAA's own instructions from earlier decades, regarding the safety position in case of an emergency landing, for example.

Try doing that today flying coach and you'll crash your teeth against the backrest of the seat smack in front of you and right in your face.

Sardine Airlines is what we all fly now.  And yet the ponderous FAA is mum.

oz.Ah schizzle. People think regulations are bad ... and they need to be moderated, but they forget where they come from. They come from this kind of stuff.

Libertarians think gov regulations hold back corporations ... forgetting the the original libertarian formulation does not allow corporations to exist. Only real individuals making real consequences for which they are liable for (unfortunately, almost no one would then be crazy enough to start a business w/o the legal shielding corporations give you).

We need a balance, we're too far on the corporate side now and it's getting worse with Trump.Cleaning up a plane before delivery does not sound like a high tech task. How much can Boeing be saving by not doing it ? You can be pretty sure that the real culprit is that management remuneration is geared to production. A plane goes out a day early and that is bonus money in management's pocket. Why would you not be cutting corners left right and center if its your personal income that is impacted. And remuneration of senior management is also geared to the same performance criteria, so senior management is highly motivated to avoid looking too closely at those short cuts. Its called greed. Its the greed of the mining company that does not maintain safety standards. Its the greed of the meat company that sends out tainted meat. Its the greed of the bankers who routinely break the law as they separate the customer from his money. And it isn't a question of corporate culture. The cancer is ingrained into our very being. Every aspect of our lives is impacted by the greed of one person or another. So lets not hear about how Boeing have taken care of it. They haven't. They can't. No-one can."Valuing production speed over quality."

I.e. the United States since Ronald Reagan. 

Those in the know know we don't live as well as Europeans now -- except the rich of course. 

I am leery to fly at this point.The pressure to speed up tasks to improve throughput ispresent in many manufacturing facilities. It is likely needed to keep the process going at top efficiency, but there should always be the top priority for safety, and this was the impression I got after touring the Boeing plant in Seattle. "We don't want to see anything left lying around" (ball point pens, etc), even where we were sitting during the tour, away from production elements of the tour. I am a retired engineer and heard of cases where a short stature worker was accidentally left inside of a wing at an other manufacturer. He was able to work inside the wing. He got out of course but the process of building something as complex at an airplane is subject to errors. This dictates through supervision 24/7 and inspection and respect for whistle blowers. The troubles related to takeoff control in the recent tragic crashes were reported but seem to have been left out of the top priority issues by carriers and perhaps the indirectly by Boeing as well. The overall culture of the management of a company must be high quality and communicated to al who work on these critical for safety entities."... sharp metal pieces — produced when fasteners were fitted into nuts ..."

Fasteners have also been a source of problems in the US space program. For example:

"... a loose nut caus[ed] an internal electrical short circuit."*

In weightless conditions, previously hidden debris can be revealed when it floats around the spacecraft.**

* Project Gemini: A Technical Summary, Volume 1106
NASA, 1968.

** Airborne Particulate Matter in Spacecraft: Proceedings of a Panel Discussion
NASA, 1988.When Sarah Huckabee Sanders raps up her gig at the WH, it looks like a pr job at Boeing is guaranteed.Non-union employees because they are cheaper, sounds like Boeing!! Grew up  in a union household where the gold standard was met every day by qualified, certified people who were educated in their specialized areas.  Guess all that cost cutting and savings goes to the corporate heads of Boeing for their yearly salaries and stock options.  Shame on Boeing ...Airbus only!!How's that U.S. National Rail project coming along?Looks like some serious FOD training is overdue.In the past decade, it's been heartbreaking to watch several once-great US enterprises run into the ground...

Both metaphorically and literally...

You don't want to believe it's happening – but, then, the signs are unmistakable...

Middle-management actually prefers to have both products and organizations that barely work, during this liquidation phase...

It gives managers totally ignorant of the crafts and skills needed for the enterprise, a patina of competence...

Sort of like when the NYC subway goes from 60% on-time to 75%...

And metrics – that purport to encompass both financials and operationals...

But just squeeze the turnip for blood...

Notwithstanding – if this is the glass half-empty view – here’s the glass half-full one...

In the past decade, it's been heartwarming to watch several now-great US enterprises scale to the vision, scope, and reach of their founders...

Amazon, Facebook, and Google are all transforming our society, culture, and governance...

> Health care will be disruptively improved by Amazon

> K-12 education will be disruptively improved by Google

> DARPA’s viability will be disruptively improved by Facebook

Happening beneath our feet...

But, Top Gun does – and will always – go to Steve...

Tim is no savior – but he’s one heckuva first apostle...

They will endure for quite some time...Dennis Mullenburg, Boeing CEO, needs to go!Great article NYTimes. This should be a wake up call for Boeing because if the flying public loses confidence in the safety of its planes, the company's future is grim. As others have noted Airbus, Bombardier and soon, Chinese manufacturers offer competitive alternatives. Boeing should take a long, hard look and learn from the lesson of GM which went from having a lock on the American auto market to being bested year after year by foreign manufacturers.For new airplanes which have enough wiring inside to reach to the moon and back, it is quite disturbing to read about verified reports of new planes arriving with parts lefts inside; some of which included a ladder, tools, and possible the worst, metal shavings. 

The metal shavings are extremely serious because they can potentially (and already may have) cut wiring so easily.Watch Al Jazeera's "Broken Dreams" regarding the 787 built in SC, on YouTube. I didn't believe them until today's NYT article.Another horrifying Boeing article. I will never fly on a Boeing 737 max again. They were never properly designed in the first place and software patches are a untrustworthy solution. 
<a href="https://spectrum.ieee.org/aerospace/aviation/how-the-boeing-737-max-disaster-looks-to-a-software-developer" target="_blank">https://spectrum.ieee.org/aerospace/aviation/how-the-boeing-737-max-disaster-looks-to-a-software-developer</a>The plane should be equipped with parachute as in fighter jet or for the vertical downturn safeness.
It is good to hold simulation and on board experimentation to install the parachute.
The parachute will quite help to reduce the damage in crash situation.The plane should be equipped with parachute as in fighter jet or for the vertical downturn safeness.
It is good to hold simulation and on board experimentation to install the parachute.
The parachute will quite help to reduce the damage in crash situation.This was predicted back when Boeing moved to North Carolina for cheap labor and to destroy its union workers in the Northwest.Kudos to the New York Times for having the courage to publish this article.  I no longer fly Boeing Aircraft, only Embraer 190's flown by Jet Blue.  

Boeing has going the way of GM, with the bean counters in charge.  In the aviation industry this translates into what they call, "Tombstone" Mentality.  They only do something when there is a crash and people die.  In fact if it wasn't for the two crashes of the Boeing 737 Max the public would still by flying on this disaster waiting to happen. 

So, my comment is, "Thanks, but no thanks."  Boeing has gone off the Deep End because they can't compete against Airbus successfully without cutting a lot of corners and taking dangerous shortcuts. 

Caveat Emptor.This story -- though it relies partially on unnamed sources -- seems airtight. If I'm holding Boeing stock, I'm selling.I had been planning to fly to NYC from Raleigh twice in May.  Looks like my wife and I will be taking a train.You get what you pay for; hire undertrained, non-unionized workers who can't combine to say "no" when ordered to cut corners by greedy, unquailfied managers and you get trash--and deaths. It's starting to look like one of the best propections consumers have is unionized labor. Far from keeping lazy workers on the payroll, as greedy emplyers like Boeing insist, they are proud of their work, stand up for its quailty, and won't let management push them around.

The only thing better would be if the workers owned the company; then they'd have a big stake in its quality.McDonnell -Douglas taking over Boeing with Boeing's money during the merger started this fall from grace.   Thirty years ago  we believed in quality, quality,  quality.  It was drummed into us on the mfg line that people's lives depended on our work. As quality control ,we were ever diligent. As Engineers, we had triple system redundancies.  Now we have bean-countersat the helm instead of engineers. I just hope Boeing's reputation can be redeemed.  As it is it just breaks my heart to see what is happening to our legacy.The first new car I bought was a '71 Plymouth Valiant.  On the way home, I felt that the back end was fish-tailing at every turn. I went right back to the dealer and was told later (and secretly) that a bolt tying body to frame was missing - the last American car I ever bought!i think i ,m not flying Boeing for sometimes until there is substantial change in culture
America used to be and still is producer of high end stuff like jets but over last few decades investor/WS pressure for profits  has resulted in what we are seeing now . It takes decades to build a stellar reputation however takes only few incidents to ruin it and this lying and cover up material is unheard of beforeWell whadda know...Boeing moved the plant to a "right to work" state (read: right to get fired state) to avoid having union machinists and now have this problem on their hands.
Who could've seen this coming?Dennis Muilenburg, president and chief executive of Boeing, took home $30 million last year. 

The average Machinist I salary in North Carolina is $40,513 as of March 28, 2019, but the range typically falls between $36,030 and $46,689.Mistakes will always be made. Only relentless testing and review by other parties can bring them to light.  This is why checks and balances are required in any system, be it internal (quality control/assurance) as well as external (FAA). Our current free market isn’t enough, not when lives can be lost and years before problems identified and corrected. It seems less ‘efficient’, when looked at from a short-term profitability, but well worth it in the long run.  A value that has been lost in our accelerated design to deployment timeline just over the past 30-40 years, in every industry, with compressed development cycles, and terms like ‘agile’, ‘just-in-time’.I had a recent flight to Chicago. The first thing that came to me was what type of aircraft I was boarding. It was Bombardier to Chicago (ORD) and was Airbus back to Newark (EWR). For some reason, I was relieved. By the way, Comac C919 will compete with Boeing 737 Max and Airbus 320neo.Actually, there is a third Boeing disaster.  The KC-46 is the "new" Boeing Air Force tanker.  It uses a 767 airframe, but is heavily modified for its new role.  It is intended to replace the KC-135, the tanker based on the 707.

The KC-46 is years late, well over budget, and has suffered from a series of design and production problems.  Recently the Air Force has suspended deliveries because of debris left in the plane during the production process.

Boeing has really gone downhill.  Sad!Perhaps airlines flying Boeing aircraft should be required to let customers know whether they are ticketed for planes built in Seattle or Charleston.There are a myriad of problems in manufacturing jet liners and the larger private jets.  The first problem drives all else;  incremental payments follow the aircraft as it moves from station to station in the assembly  process, a hitch in the process, and the money stops flowing until the hitch is resolved.  This drives all else, management style, accounting, workforce management and most significantly, the approach to quality.  Self inspection is endemic in US aircraft industry...the riveter inspections his own rivets, and so on down the line.  The workforce is late getting the aircraft to the next assembly point and jeopardizes a payment installment, and you know what happens.  The problem with qualify management in aircraft assembly is it takes so much TIME.Root cause seems to be that a large employer establishes a huge factory requiring highly skilled, committed and experienced labor in an area where neither the skill, experience nor work ethic is locally available, and likely unobtainable. It may keep overhead and labor costs down, but if your product kills people or alienates your customers, the cost/benefit falls short and damages the company's reputation in the process.After seeing the quality of homebuilders first hand in SC, I would be extremely hesitant to fly on a 787 built in North Charleston.This story has 9 lives, pushed by the Seattle based labor unions, because Boeing decided to locate in a right to work state. When the Charleston factory was opened this is all we heard about and perhaps there were a few teething problems that had to be corrected. The airlines who purchase these planes go over them with a fine tooth comb and have any problems fixed before they sign on the dotted line. I have not seen any evidence that the dispatch rate, safety of flight or unscheduled repairs is any different among the -8, -9, or -10 versions.Boeing opened a plant in SC for one reason; to employ a cheap, non-unionized workforce.  Over-worked employees, a culture where workers are afraid to report safety excursions, poor worker training... these are all a logical conclusion. Congrats Boeing, you got what you wanted.These are the lines in this article that disturbed me the most: "A spokesman for the Federal Aviation Administration, Lynn Lunsford, said the agency had inspected several planes certified by Boeing as free of such debris and found those same metal slivers. In certain circumstances, he said, the problem can lead to electrical shorts and cause fires.". So, the FAA found dangerous manufacturing defects in Boeing airplanes and did NOTHING? No fines, no reexamination of the FAA policy to allow deputized Boeing employees to be safety reviewers of new airplanes, nothing?  Congress needs to have hearings on this ASAP!The root cause of this is the fanatical obsession with "shareholder value".  Here's a novel management philosophy - happy, well-paid workers make quality, world-class products that sell for a premium and keep the dividend checks flowing.  Simply, huh?  And you saved $2M not paying some know-nothing-know-it-all management consultant.Pressure not to report problems is a HUGE red flag. That goes beyond the pale.Al Jazerra had a documentary on the situation with 787s coming out of North Charleston back in Sept '14. <a href="https://youtu.be/rvkEpstd9os" target="_blank">https://youtu.be/rvkEpstd9os</a>

While it seems clear that Boeing management has played a significant role in the current situation, it's safe to say that management doesn't ask them to leave trash and tools in aircraft nor does it guarantee that union workers aren't slobs as well.Management turning a blind eye to scruples is not unique to Boeing.Those posting below this is a Republican issue and Trump is to blame need to wake up....Boeing moved to the 'right to work' state purposefully during the Obama administration. The lack of oversight and all the issues started back when Obama nominated Huerta as Deputy Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) on January 26, 2010, right after Boeing broke ground at Charleston. Huerta continuing on 6 December 2011 to become Acting Administrator of the FAA; then March 27, 2012, President OBAMA formally nominated him to serve as the next permanent Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration....then in Jan 2018, after issues were being revealed at the plane maker during his tenure, he saw the writing on the wall....and used the "I hate Trump" excuse to go running and hide in the woods....this issue was occurring  during course of the Obama years....and, Boeing only advertises on predominantly Dem run media....so stop blaming Trump....its getting old....I'm pretty sure the  Russians  were behind  this and the  failure of  the  waitress to  bring my  coffee in  a timely manner.Can anyone tell me if Airbus has the same problems?This event—The loss of one of the greatest reputations in all business history—fueled by the demonic greed of an aspiring new American Aristocracy, and the relentless drive for excessive profits and wildly excessive pay for CEOs— tells the whole story of the decline and fall of the American Century and the imminent loss of the Pax Americana.

In the 189Os, Republicans campaigned  on the promise of “a chicken in every pot”, and the best-known “Words of Wisdom” of every successful business was “the customer is always right!”

In the 1950s America reached unimagined heights of prosperity as a Republican administration launced the greatest public works project in human history—The interstate highways, once the envy of every nation. GOP-led Feds invented the Internet, and subsidized development of semiconductors and computers —laying the groundwork for the digital age—by letting out contracts for ever-faster & more powerful computers for defense and Social Security.

In every period of prosperity in American history Investment by “Uncle Sam”— remember him?— led the way— the Erie Canal and the the transcontinental railroad, Boulder & Grand Coulee Dams, to name but few.

All paid for by income taxes at high marginal rates!

Now the Republican idea is to “never give a sucker an even break”, make a killing on Wall Street, then hide your fortune offshore and pay NO federal income tax, all while starving half of the population into an obedient peasantry and urban proletariat.

MAGA!It’s the American obsession with “Freedom”, which was long ago hijacked by “wanting to be free from responsibility” that’s finally bringing the chickens home to roost. 

Be it the inability to tell the truth or live to one’s commitments, down to not texting while driving.... the culture has been inundated with self absorption and self aggrandizement, to the exclusion of everything and everyone else.

Now the ugly tentacles created by the erosion of our national character are starting to strangle us. Be it the BP blowout in the Gulf, the hurricane Harvey response in PR or Boeing Jets filled with metal shavings.... the signals that are being sent are clear and unmistakable.Penny saved; pound foolish.  US economic world leadership diminished by the profit  motive gone sidewise...Again. 

There’s no esprit d’corp or worker pride in union breaking.  Who can trust Boeing and the US FAA after the 737 SuperMax debacle and upon knowing Boeing ignores its own quality inspectors in the same manner of the Morton Thiokol and the Space Shuttle Challenger Disaster?Boeing X CEO McNerney from 2005 to 2015 introduced quality degradation as a business model for quick bucks as alluded to in this piece and confirmed of late.  
To be fair, he previously sold soap and scotch tape and his specialty was "branding". But neither soap nor scotch tape need fly and "branding" is no help either in controlled flight. 
He became big of bud of Trump advising presumably on "branding" which is all Trump's got. 
In fact Trump said of the crashing Max issue, it needs rebranding with new name.
The new CEO will need more than a new name and hat logo to pull the Max up from its nose dive.
Even the village idiot knows Boeing needs to scratch build a new plane to compete with Airbus but they seemed determined to throw good money after bad.Could someone please recommend an airline that doesn't fly Boeing aircraft?Unfettered capitalism at its finest, eh?I'm dumbfounded that a company like Boeing -- whose heart & soul is built around high performance aviation machines -- can have anything less than a complete commitment to absolute perfection and "cleanliness" (ie, no FOD!) inside its every one of its products. Who are these "senior executives" at Boeing who have permitted even a single jet to roll out with trash and even tools (!) strewn about?  Unbelievable! I'm a former US Navy flight officer... With many years on many ships and flight lines. The FIRST thing you learn in a Navy squadron is to pick up all FOD, trash, etc. The day begins with "FOD walkdown" in hangars & staging areas. Looking for anything... trash, cigarette butts, loose wire, blown grit, paint flakes, whatever... anything! And then there's tool control; or not, apparently at Boeing? Utterly basic! First rule of aviation...You never leave anything in the aircraft... And certainly not tools. It's like surgeons in an operating room... Take all the devices out of the patient that went inside.  Clearly, Boeing has major problems... And frankly, they aren't the fault of line workers. It's a top-down management culture that apparently doesn't care... or worse, doesn't even understand the problem.But.....no collusion, no obstruction.  

Nothing to see here.  

Wanna' feel safe as a citizen of the US?  

Wanna' feel safe flying Boeing?  

How quaint.
How liberal.
How out of touch.Boeing's management should move back from Chicago to Seattle area to get back in-touch with actual plane-production people.How hypocritical- Qatar wants jets built by union workers in Washington but treats its own immigrant working class despicably.Time to stop letting the aircraft makers police themselves. Re-regulate this process and hire many more FAA inspectors!! NOW!!!I think that I shall never fly
in Boeing planes up in the sky.
Their factories do shoddy work,
with wiring that goes berserk.

They used to be reliable
but now are way too pliable
with standards and their training schools --
employees scratch their heads at tools.

I think their unions better say
to immigrants "Please come and stay!"
"We need your fresh and younger brains
to once again make safer planes!"love it when government regulations are useless. and more government is better? baaaahahhah.. we've met the enemy and its us!!When is the CEO of Boeing going to resign? After the crashes of two defective 737max8 planes, his failure to do so shows just how seriously he takes the safety of the people who fly in his company's planes.Money and greed!profits sometimes trumped safety.
Say it ain't so. This couldn't happen in this day and age./sBoeing doesn’t deserve the lousy managers it has had over the last decade or so. Hopefully, latest when the Max issues will have been solved, management past and present will be held accountable. Running down such a great company like Boeing, with on top of that an awful loss of life, is on par with crime.In South Carolina, they also make BMWs. With a non-union low skilled work force.
The difference is there is little  room for error when your plane is in flight.
If your BMW breaks down, you call a tow truck

I hope the quality of union built versus non-union built 787s are compared. With this example, and the 737, we see that Boeing prizes profit over everything else. Perhaps that should be their motto.Of course, what else?  The only thing Boeing is interested in doing is making money — money over safety;  money over the health an safety of the people that fly in the jets they produce.Don't forget that in 2001 Boeing moved its C suite to Chicago and away from its engineers in Seattle.  That says something about the change in corporate culture.Another example of what happens when bean counters run a company instead of engineers or those who understand manufacturing.  Also, this is the result of getting rid of unions.  Unions have a incentive to think longer term and to flag problems.  When you have a bunch of subs and people with temp jobs, they have no incentive to fix or notify of problems since they can be easily fired.  It is SAD that this country used to be know for quality and now even a storied company like Boeing is behaving like a third world company just so a CEO can eke out a penny more in profits so his stock options are worth more.  SAD!This is what has happened in America. The bean counters are running the show. Even in the oil and gas industry, they rush you to finish with no regard to quality and safety. It is not the engineering team, it is people that in many cases do not have the basic knowledge of what it takes to do the work making decisions . If Americans knew what time bombs are being installed and built all around and close to their cities they would be protesting in the streets. To make things worse, the same people are sending this jobs to low cost centers in 3rd world countries.  First the manufacturing jobs were taken  away and now the engineering and design jobs as well.Expertise and safety should be the single overriding mantra for Boeing.  It seems that the safety and expertise have been taken for granted by bean counters, and as a result the whole enterprise is at risk along with shareholder equity. A reputation for quality and safety drives all else in air travel.  The company quarterly profits are a senseless measure when the longer view is required.  

A bird flaps wings to fly; Boeing has a flap which could be more like a canary in the coal mine.  The company "oxygen" is "consumer confidence", and when it is lacking, the company and really the American reputation for quality, may be snuffed like the pre-technology canaries.First and foremost Boeing's Chicago management of McDonald Douglas retreads moved production to North Carolina and the reactionary political regime that supported it to punish a union that stood up to Boeing in Everett, Washington. Second this is the THIRD Boeing aircraft to suffer sloppy production and debris problems - the Air Force has expressed alarm at the condition of the 767 tankers being delivered to them. Meanwhile, Boeing management wants to layoff 1,000 safety inspectors as "not needed" because "automation can handle it". You know, like the Boeing automation that did such a fine job for Lion Air and in Ethiopia. Here we go again...787 Dreamliner is coming out from the same culture of corporate greed as 737 Max. If we have auto crashes where a few hundred people lose their life, where it is projected that something is wrong with the vehicle in a causative and systemic way, it would be investigated and  the problem identified and possibly a few people including the CEO would have been fired and possibly held criminally liable. But in this case originally the crashes were blamed on the pilots and the airlines in a rather racist tone.

Now we have evidence about another manufacturing line of the same company, it is now evident that it is the corporate culture and not a singular assembly line that is to be blamed.

If Boeing would have been a company from a third world or European country sanctions would have been placed already with passengers warned not to fly on the airplanes manufactured by the airline.

This is what could help Boeing come out of this mess. 

Stop flying newer Boeing planes, airlines would start cancelling their orders resulting in the wholesale changes in the management at Boeing possibly salvaging the company.How Boeing made their own bed:

1. Try to squeeze the machinists' union that made you into what you are (after many billions in tax breaks from the state of Washington) because you want to pad your bottom line.

2. Move production to the labor unfriendly/right to work state SC after said tax breaks which were implemented to keep those jobs in WA.

3. Cut corners hiring untrained and/or incompetent personnel in SC.

4. What we have here.Fundamentally, the issue is the Corporate Culture, NOT whether a factory is Unionized. When Honda first opened their plant in Ohio, there were may concerns whether the cars will be "as good" as the ones made in Japan. Now, we take it for granted that the Toyotas, Nissans, Subarus, BMWs, VWs, and Mercedes built in the US are just as good as the same brands made anywhere.
At the VW plant in Chattanooga, I was surprised to learn that no smoking is permitted ANYWHERE on the factory grounds so as to avoid potentially damaging the finish on the cars. In the Deep South. Smokers have to drive outside VW property to smoke! This factory competes with other VW factories to manufacture cars so their standards and processes have to be as good as their counterparts at a minimum. BTW, the Chattanooga VW plant is NOT Union.
There is no doubt Quality Manufacturing can be done ANYWHERE in the US. Had Boeing brought the Culture and Processes from Everett over to North Charleston, we would not be reading this story.Can it be any wonder that two jets just came down due to faulty systems given this lack of quality control and concern for speed on far simpler issues...A great hitting "percentage" in baseball is 0.333. A terrific pass completion percentage in (American) football is 70%.  From some of the comments on here, you would think the authors expect a plane to land safely every single time.  You just can't please some people.I don't believe that airlines want planes that are at risk of crashing.  They're in the transportation business, not the murder business.  If they're ok with Boeing then I am too.  Also, it is legitimate to investigate how much of a role union sabotage is playing in any quality control issues Boeing is having.Shoddy production practices at the SC Dreamliner production plant, optional safety features on the 737 Max8.
Good plan to ruin a once great reputation Boeing or to go out of business.This is a serious matter, and I don't want to be lead cheerleader for production at the North Charleston, SC plant. On the other hand, the 787 has an excellent safety and reliability record, and many of the 800 plus 787s now flying were made in North Charleston. Dreamliners made in SC have not been falling out of the sky (unlike, sadly, the 737 Max, which is made in Everett, Washington). Management needs to be held strictly accountable for the production issues in North Charleston, but I wouldn't hesitate to fly on a 787 made there.Message: Unions are good for consumers not just workers.In our current “free market” economic system of Governing, workers rights, deregulation of policy, procedure and process in the name of profit is rewarded over performance. What gets rewarded get done. We no longer produce for shareholders and all stakeholders.  It’s shareholders only. Just another red light blinking. And our super intelligent, very bright deal maker President says the answer is “rebranding”.What an indictment against Boeing and all corporations who put profits above safety. They thrive with few regulations and hire the cheapest labor they can find thus creating a dangerous lack of  interest in quality control. Repurpose them into something but do not let these planes fly.Fire the CEO, close the South Carolina plant, and build a new plant in union-strong, yet relatively inexpensive, Illinois, close to corporate headquarters. 

There's an abandoned air force base 75 miles south of Chicago that could be an ideal spot for building and flight testing airplanes. Ironically, one reason they moved HQ to Chicago was its vast network of commuter trains that "fly" past traffic gridlock. That abandoned AFB is already served by 6 Amtrak trains daily from a station literally across the street from HQ in Chicago. 

But first, fire the CEO and stanch the bleeding.I don't hear a lot of complaints about the 787 from Boeing's air carrier customers.   They seem eager to get the plane into service and they're the folks most intensely interested in quality.   Moreover, the 787 has a very good safety record.

This makes me wonder if the problem with tool and debris left in planes isn't mostly sabotage by some workers unhappy with their co-workers voting against unionization.The decline of Boeing is the inevitable result of the GOP’s vision for American business: the religion of deregulation and an all-out war on union protections for workers.

What do we think is going to happen when companies are allowed to regulate themselves on safety-critical issues and move operations to locales without qualified workers just to avoid paying appropriate wages?

It is sad that instead of rightful pride in this once-exemplary American company, we’ve been reduced to fearing its newest products.As you read this article you must keep in mind that the union has been trying to unionize this North Charleston plant since before it was opened, without success.  To me, the article wreaks of employee sabotage and attempts to malign the company to seek favor for a union environment.Many (too many, actually) fresh out of engineering school, I worked for GE in Erie, PA building locomotives.  This was my first experience working along side a unionized work force.  They quickly impressed me with their focus on quality, if a worker saw something like metal shavings left on a locomotive floor, they would flag it and get management.  Management respected the worker and would get the issue corrected.  Quality was job one and anyone could stop production to fix a problem.  
I guess times have changed.I give Boeing another ten years before it just falls apart. So it goes with late stage, 20th century capitalism in a new millennium.The algorithm for booking a flight has drastically changed. Instead of the cheapest flight, what type of plane is assigned to that particular schedule.First 737 Max, now this. Unacceptable. Boeing's reputation is on the line at the worst possible time. COMAC -- China's own commercial aviation manufacturer -- is within months of launching its competitor to the B737. So Boeing needs to admit its problems, replace its leadership with a truly accountable management team, and stop placing passengers' lives at risk. No other alternative is acceptable.On several occasions the Air Force has stopped excepting new tankers from Boeing because it was finding all sorts of trash and junk in the new aircraft that also points to poor workmanship and inspections.Boeing is making an already safe plane safer again.Would Boeing managers put their own families on the 787's out of North Charleston? Boeing's management needs to be replaced and revamped to restore faith in the company.Between making a higher profit and keeping people safe Boeing choose  higher profit. This is equal to killings people for money. I used to love America but due to guys like Dennis Muilenburg this is becoming ever more difficult.I was dubious from the start of the radical design choices made concerning materialsIt all fits together. Go to a state with non-union labor. Keep wages low. Inferior educational systems which produce a lower quality workforce. Complain about problems and you are fired. Yep. Let's make airplanes. What could go wrong?I'm a commercial pilot. Not an airline pilot. But I know enough to find this article frightening. Over 300 people have died as a result of unfathomably stupid decisions -- actually indecisions-- made by Boeing. Those 737 Max crashes were the DIRECT RESULT of not informing pilots of drastic changes in shutdown procedure of failed systems. And the FAA languidly strolls on accepting the company's assurances that all is well.This is all obviously shocking and scary. But as a consumer, the thing I would like to know the most is how to avoid flying on the planes made at the South Carolina plant. All I want is some control over the risk that I subject myself toI am a Boeing retiree.  I am proud to have worked for Boeing.  But now, if these allegations are found to be true my pride may be somewhat dampened.
Perhaps there is a pitfall in having a non-union workforce, workers that are not protected from retaliation due to their concern over manufacturing standards.
Lastly, again we should question the lack of support our regulatory agencies receive from the administration and Congress such as starving the agencies of the resources needed to properly oversee the manufacturers of food, drugs and aircraft.  Which leads to another question-how often is FAA conducting their manufacturing and quality audits of Charleston, or, are the managers eye washing the process, and are those persons from the FAA knowledgeable in their activities.This reminds me of a story my brother told me about his experiences working at a Ford assembly plant in the 1960's.

His job was to install the window washer motor to the body of the vehicle being assembled as it moved past his work station.  He told me the motor should have been attached with four bolts.

But, he told me, the line rarely moved slowly enough for him install all four bolts.  Three bolts installed was very good, two bolts was the norm and one bolt was acceptable.

Ford in the 1960's is not Boeing today but both exhibit the same mentality:  The  corporate bottom line trumps all else,  and quality control is a drain on corporate profits.

Bad product almost destroyed Ford in the 1980's.  Ford was only saved because Reagan forced Japan to limit its sales of cars in the United States.

Hopefully, the Federal regulators will be able to regain their independence from Boeing and protect the lives of the flying public before more people die.When it gets to the point that customers refuse deliveries, we should all agree there is a systemic quality issue. This is not a "unioin / non-union" issue; the Air Force halted acceptance of KC-46 (767) tankers, assembled in long-standing, union-represented, Boeing Everett Washington plant. Nor, is this a matter of training. Just how much training is required to know that tools, ladders, metal shavings, etc., should not be left behind?? Sounds much more like management cranking up the production rate and willing more planes to come out the hanger door each month without a clue as to whether such is really possible or just what resources are needed to make it possible. Sounds, too, like management does not want to hear bad news so the manufacturing information system has been tuned to deliver only the good news to the C-suite.

Monopolies can behave like this; duopolies are not much better for preventing this kind of situation. I wonder if such would be happening if we still had three or more competitors in the commercial airplane market. Perhaps the DoJ should not have allowed Boeing to swallow McDonnell Douglas.I am surprised that there is little mention that Nikki Haley (former Ambassador to the united Nations) expects to be voted on to the Board of Boeing by shareholders at the end of this month.  This, in microcosm, is what is wrong with business in the United States at present.  What can Haley bring to the table other than influence in Washington and probably Columbia?  I suggest absolutely nothing.  If shareholders had collective sense they would reject this Republican zealot who no doubt helped to create the unhealthy working environment in South Carolina described in this piece.The fact they were going to cut hundred of QA positions knowing they had a lack of quality labor is precisely why the FAA should not be run by them. The South Carolina gov. paid $324,675 roughly each for the 3,080 full-time jobs (the $1B in tax breaks), footed the bill for $33M of training for this private company, and Boeing turns around and stifles unions. The tax dollars of the people of South Carolina are being used to subsidize Boeing private profit, and the people are told how lucky they are. Oh and in case they weren't feeling lucky enough, we have the trump tax cuts. That is such a miscarriage of the duties of the government of South Carolina- they are supposed to work for people not corporations!After retiring from the Air Force (22 years), I joined Boeing as systems, software and test engineer for 24 years, all on military aircraft, 13 years on the B-1B bomber and 11 years on the F-22 fighter.  I also walked the picket line for 40 days and nights, as a retired colonel with 2 MIT masters degrees.  Our culture in the 80s and 90s was quality over profits, which I supported, having a son-in-law piloting e B-1B.  

Boeing's decline began when when flower child CEO Phil Condit entered a merger with McDonnell Douglas and turned the company over to Harry Stonecipher, who was universally detested.   Stonecipher hated labor unions.  Stonecipher moved the HQ to Chicago.  Stonecipher got his comeuppance when he was fired for a dalliance with a female VP.

Alan Mullaly, a heritage Boeing employee who knew airplanes, should have been made CEO.  Boeing management is currently exercised by those whose expertise is yellow stickup notes.The problem with crony capitalism is that you never know when the government is putting the public’s or private companies’ interests first.

The FAA and president have been so cozy with Boeing that it’s hard to trust that their planes are even safe to fly. The Federal Aviation Administration ought to be above suspicion, but how can it be when so many other parts of the government are run on behalf of the corporations they are supposed to regulate?

Whether it’s the financial, food, environmental, pharmaceutical or aviation industry, we are all left having to figure out who we can trust because Republicans are deregulating everything in a very short sighted way. It’s only when the water they drink, the food they eat and the planes they fly kills them that maybe they’ll realize the mistakes they made; however, I doubt they’ll even call it crony capitalism when that happens.This is what one should expect from a corrupt management culture that prioritizes profit over people, takes pride in one-upmanship that squeezes concessions from state governments and workers wages and benefits, and ignores safety issues. The entire Boeing senior management should be sacked because they are a continuing threat to public safety and welfare.Two large Boeing commercial planes have recently crashed, killing everyone on board. Both were relatively new, and were flown with defective software. Why would anyone think production and design problems are limited to just one model of Boeing airplane?Maybe they should move the production facilities further north to NC. Or relocating workers from there 
To the South. Whatever is easier.
I think it is a general problem in our manufacturing
Industry. Low skilled , low trained workers and an off hand management, which appears to the factory floor only once or twice a year.
Making funds available for proper training and reward and encourage bringing in new ideas in problem solving .I read this article, and those relating to the 737 max 8, and I recall from several years ago management practice at Boeing being called into question. The International Project Leadership Academy cited the 787 project in their ‘Catalogue of Catastrophe’ (<a href="http://calleam.com/WTPF/?p=4617" target="_blank">http://calleam.com/WTPF/?p=4617</a>) and the Seattle Times reported on it too, publishing an engineer’s report that questioned the company outsourcing policy for the 787 with regards to engineering practice at the organisation (<a href="http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/ABPub/2011/02/04/2014130646.pdf" target="_blank">http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/ABPub/2011/02/04/2014130646.pdf</a>).I believe the Air Force also has stopped accepting the new tankers for this very reason.  

Something is wrong at Boeing.  Hope they fix it.I  sure hope Boeing's managers didn't learn their trade in today's business schools. If they did then the whole economy is in for a rough flight.I just watched a World War 2 documentary on the History Channel about the aerial bombing campaign against Germany with Boeing B-17 aircraft.  Some of these B-17’s were incredibly damaged, but somehow made it back to England.  How far Boeing has fallen is sad, but dangerous because when Boeing screws up, people die!!!Surprise surprise, playing a numbers game and rushing production = a crappy result.Does all this sound familiar? Afraid so. Meanwhile out of Boeing headquarters in Chicago somes comes verbal denial and general balony. From Boeing bean counters ways to make even more money. From the FAA silence without embarrassing public reprimands or fines? From Republicans praises of deregulation. Does it appear that one American manufacturing icon is strangling the goose which lays its golden eggs. I know other American icons who have done it. American capitalism is running off the rails and proper regulation is the only way I know of to protect consumers.This reminds me of the run-up the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster.  Technicians and engineers on the factory floor are being overruled by managers obsessed with production schedules. It won’t end well.If you want to stop Boeing from delivering these planes the solution is simple-DON'T BUY BOEING PLANES. Airlines that buy them are on notice that Boeing planes are poorly built and are held together, in some cases, with bubble gum-no too mention soda cans, metal slivers, etc.,The airlines has a duty to make sure we fly on safe planes. Given Boeing propensity to build dangerous planes the airlines need to have personal on hand at Boeing plants to insure compliance and Boeing should pay for that cost.Boeing = shoddy. Boeing’s decline will one day be a case study.You want cheap labor?  Well, you get what you pay for.  How could Boeing's chief decision makers ignore this reality?Like much of America’s traditional manufacturing base, Boeing is a once-great company that’s been hollowed-outlet in pursuit of “six sigma”-type continuous cost cutting. Now it’s cultural rot has made it un-reformable - these guys are still building the max, which is unlikely to ever carry passengers again. Unfortunately, that’s where we are. Boeing could become a favorite of short-sellers as its Enronian nature reveals itself.The problem is that corporate governance is an oxymoron. Boards of directors are paid to rubber stamp overpaid CEOs for mediocre performance. The corporations themselves are lavished with tax breaks and protected by regulatory and legal frameworks that protect them from class action lawsuits and accountability. Do you really think corporate heads will roll at Boeing after it becomes official what we already know about these defective planes? Ralph Nader keeps warning us about corporate malfeasance and we keep electing politicians in bed with corporations that could care less about our safety.Fascinating how many Readers and commenters here want to blame this on low skill non-union labor.  Folks - get a grip. I’ve worked in both Union and nonunion plants and I can tell you personally there is absolutely NO difference in skill and capability between union and non union.  Period.  This piece in fact feels like a bit of a weird hit job on Boeing - you could find “whistleblowers” of the same kind at dark near any manufacturing plant.  Something smells fishy about the Boeing pile on going on right now.An ever increasing picture of a company run amok.  

This did not happen overnight but began with the merger with McDonald-Douglas.  The Douglas people have not ruined three companies!

The Boeing management should be fired by the stockholders for the 737 Max debacle.  And charged with murder by prosecutors for the two crashes.The problems with the Boeing 787 are similar to those with their 737 Max. Management emphasizes profit too much at the expense of quality and safety. The problem for both is clearly described in this article about the 737: Max.<a href="https://spectrum.ieee.org/aerospace/aviation/how-the-boeing-737-max-disaster-looks-to-a-software-developer" target="_blank">https://spectrum.ieee.org/aerospace/aviation/how-the-boeing-737-max-disaster-looks-to-a-software-developer</a>This must be the year, that the Carolinas are being trashed, for their own inadequacies! From the corruption in North Carolina's 9th Congressional District to the shabby building of the Dreamliners in South Carolina! They are going to need a good spinmeister! President Trump might have recommendations!!!Don't fly Boeing, the once proud airplane manufacturer. Management should be fired. Apparently, the buck stops nowhere at Boeing.I will never fly in a Boeing aircraft again. Never.All R & D goes into adding seats.Note the pink tennis balls in the photo with the wiring harnesses.

That's a creative solution*, but it suggests that no one is *engineering* the manufacturing process. Someone should be asking:

* Why do we need those?
* Is there a better way to solve the problem?

And the wiring bundles look quite sloppy. Why all the uncut cable ties?

* I'm guessing that the pink tennis balls are either post markers or head protectors.If it’s Boeing, I may not be going....Bottom line when flying.......If it’s Boeing I ain’t going!North Charleston is not a union location, Renton WA is union.This article, in addition to the 737-Max issues, give me grave concerns over ever stepping into a Boeing aircraft ever again. That being said, I wonder how pilots who fly these planes feel? 

I am not a pilot. I realize that commercial airline pilots face pressures unique to their profession, but more so given they are responsible for the lives of hundreds of their passengers while flying these Boeing-made jets. It would be a great follow-up to gather a group of Boeing Dreamliner pilots and get their take on this article.If one wanted to make an argument in favor of the gynormous compensation doled out to US CEOs it might be that they are being paid to maintain the integrity of gigantic organizations upon which huge numbers of employees and customers depend for their livelihoods and safety. One would then have to ask if Boeing's CEO has earned his gynormous compensation.There definitely is a culture of mismanagement at Boeing.  The greed factor is displayed at almost every step of each project and their constituent edges and vertices.

My family and I only fly on non-Boeing built aircraft.

At least Airbus, Bombadier and Canadian Regional Jet put passenger safety and security ahead of profits.For generations, the finest commercial aircraft were built in Seattle by a unionized workforce. Then Boeing decided to move product to South Carolina where labor is cheaper - you get what you pay for. Plus parts were outsourced to over 100 countries where who knows what quality control is in effect.

And all the while, CEO Dennis Muilenburg, who tries to project this ascetic, workout/health food affectation will continue to be enabled by a gutless board and earn millions, no matter what happens.

Great to be in the 1%, eh Dennis?Whether or not the workers are union, it is up to Boeing or any other manufacturer to make sure their product is 100% up to the mark.
It is their responsibility to have quality control personal at every step of aircraft manufacture to make sure every effort is taken these planes are safe to fly.
Give the quality control people a mandate to do their job and give them 100% support when they find problems, and not look first at what the cost would be, or who's backside is on the line for the problem all the way up to the CEO.
The flying public and the shareholders who have invested deserve no less.I am shocked and saddened by this report. I have been a frequent (wholly private funded) flyer for many years, and had huge admiration for Boeing - and loved the Dreamliner. I now, in common with other posts, wonder about them, and all aircraft builders. Is this part of the pressure to keep up the bottom line? For a long time, especially S-E Asia where I spend a lot of time, my contacts there say "avoid stuff made in China" I wonder if one day things are reversed...Management that doesn't properly fulfil their obligations to the shareholders will be replaced by management that does.I worked for Boeing after they bought out McDonnell-Douglas Aircraft. Although I didn't work in the commercial aircraft divisions I had many friends who transferred to the North Charleston facility when it opened. I heard stories of the problems and issues at that plant prior to planes being finished for delivery. I heard that customers for the 787 wouldn't take delivery of planes in Charleston, only in Seattle after it was inspected there.

My experiences with Boeing is, "Price, schedule or quality, pick one".Too many MBAs running things, and being paid for running them faster, and too few engineers running things and being penalized for trying to do their jobs well.

This is corporate America, and corporate America is who has purchased our government and its regulators. 

Tip of the iceberg. No wonder we can't solve our problems.In my view the problems at Boeing arose when it moved its headquarters to Chicago from Seattle, separating upper level management from the aircraft factory. At that point the main focus became the bottom line and increasing profit rather than producing fine airplanes. A real shame and an example of what is wrong with today's savage capitalism.It was a big mistake for Boeing to move a production line out of the greater Seattle area, just to save money. 
Growing up in the Seattle area I recall running track in junior high & watching the first 747 test model flying overhead and I felt such a sense of NW pride-- and then such a sense of betrayal when Boeing moved production away from the Seattle area to avoid Seattle's well-trained aerospace , union workers--and I say you get what you pay for.
Is there a way for the flying public to find out which Dreamliner's are made in Everett Washington? I am flying on one next month to London...Back in 1967 I worked at the Lordstown, Ohio GM plant, so all this rings true.  We made junk cars, although the labor force wasn't to blame.  The unwritten law was finish the job any way and never stop the assembly line.  People purchased shoddy cars that contained coke cans and cigarette butts, many parts were assembled in hap hazard fashion.

Assembly work was boring and physically demanding while being deadening to the brain.  My experience was that quality was not important only quota. I'm sure the article is truthful and accurate.When a country abdicates its duty to monitor and regulate corporate behavior, this is what you get - then what you get is countries no longer desiring to do business with that country's companies.A friend of mine (I'll call him "Robert") is retired from Boeing.  He originally started working for McDonnell Aircraft in St. Louis.  Boeing and McDonnell merged in 1996.  McDonnell Aircraft manufactured the space capsules for both the NASA Mercury and Gemini programs.  Robert said that all the assembly of the capsules was done in clean rooms with small-particle filters and strict rules on clean room clothing.  Everybody had to wear clean-room suits, special clean shoes and hairnets to prevent contamination of the capsules.

Almost from the beginning, when close inspections of the capsules were carried out, foreign objects were found in the capsules.  These were a whole range of items that were accidentally dropped or unintentionally left among the internal wiring bundles, instrument assemblies, or inside the capsule cabins.  

McDonnell figured out a way to alleviate the problem.  They made adjustments to the design of the capsules so they could be bolted to a shaker machine.  As part of the final inspections, the machine shook the capsules while rotating them.  What dropped out were items like business cards, empty cigarette packs, cigarette and cigar butts, packages of condoms, pens, pencils, written notes, etc.  And this was in what was supposed to be a sterile, clean-room environment.

I had to modify my concept of high-tech quality control after I heard this.  It seems that perfection is only possible up until the point that the humans get involved.You mean the union that is trying to unionize the work force is claiming shoddy manufacturing? You don't say...It's not just non-union factories that are doing shoddy work. Companies that have instituted two-tier pay scales most likely will witness the same degree of carelessness among their lower-paid employees. Whether its resentment, conscious or unconscious, or just plain incompetence, such a work environment carries consequences. Just imagine the havoc that would reign in the corner offices if the pay of all new recruits was cut in half. Upper management however, does not even consider labor as human beings but as wretched profit drains, so they never even bother with the act of imagining their possible reactions to such ill-considered policy.Shoddy production. Indifferent oversight. The circular catastrophe: An ominous logic comes into play when the low-cost labor portion of the production process is almost scornfully not considered by management to be worth their setting aside a penny more for proper monitoring and supervision. It is in some way reminiscent of the failure of the 'O-ring' seals that brought down the Space Shuttle Challenger in 1986 and killed all seven crew members.Unfortunately, the story is even worse than is currently reported.

One of the world's leading business school professors, Dr Theodore Piepenbrock of MIT/Oxford/London School of Economics spent the best part of a decade working as a consultant to Boeing's most senior leaders, teaching them his award-winning theory on "The Evolution of Business Ecosystems", which Boeing gave the code name "Red vs Blue".  The Boeing CEO emailed that Dr Piepenbrock "...may be bigger and more important than our (leadership) team, based on (his) many achievements..."

"RvB" predicted years ago that the 787 Dreamliner would be the biggest financial disaster in Boeing's history, with interim losses exceeding $50 billion, which many reputable newspapers (e.g. WSJ, The Economist, Seattle Times, etc.) have since verified.  Dr Piepenbrock stated in his public lectures that he would never fly on a 787.

"RvB" also predicted years ago that the 737NG replacement could not be both economically and physically viable. In fact, Dr Piepenbrock has stated over the years that Boeing airplanes could systematically begin to fall from the sky before 2020. 

When the Boeing CEO was asked in an internal meeting why Boeing was not following "RvB" and not stopping these ill-fated programmes, he pounded his fist on the table and yelled: "Because we don't have the courage to!"

Dr Piepenbrock terminated his contract with Boeing due to his ethics concerns and a number of ethical senior Boeing leaders left soon afterwards.What a compelling story. Boeing managers should hang their heads in shame. Do employees/whistle blowers now need to wear a wire when questioning quality assurance? I have booked a flight in a couple of weeks to another part of the country, after not flying for 20 years. Now I'm wondering...The CEO and Board of Boeing need to step down.Worth pointing out that the acting Secretary of Defense came from Boeing and spearheaded the 787 project. (Trump hires only the best people.)What do you expect.  It's not like these planes were built in Japan or Germany.  They're not even built in a Blue State with good regulations and a highly educated work force.  It's South Carolina.   The State that sends Lindsey Graham to the Senate.What a coincidence. My son-in-law missed Easter weekend with us this year because of a manufacturing issue at the North Charleston Dreamliner plant. The galley coffee maker system was found to be dripping. Before it could be isolated and repaired, the piping burst flooding the fuselage with 30 gallons of water. He and another man had to spend all of Friday and Friday night dewatering and cleaning up the mess....... Feel sorry for folks at the plant and those filing suits. It's a "right to work" state, which is double-speak for "if you don't like it, find another job and, oh by the way, since you complained, you better start looking because as soon as we find a replacement, we're gonna fire you."....... And the courts are in-league with employers. Very few labor suits, especially those involving women, are won by employees. Charleston/North Charleston, like the rest of the miserable state, are stuck in time regarding attitudes towards workers and women - somewhere around 1850. And the Klan lives on there with barely an effort to hide. New comers in some areas are actively recruited by the Klan after they've been sized up to be the "right kind of folks." It's an open secret..... What a place to build the most advanced commercial jet in-service.Another day in the Reagan Restoration. Ain't "Morning in America" grand?!South Carolina.....another state with tax cuts for the rich leading to 3rd world level public education!

Boeing’s over paid executives will blame workers.....when the executives chose the state of S. Carolina which is basically a Republican banana republic!  Low cost, low quality airplanes = Boeing aircraft flotilla of sinking quality.  Then add the Republicans gauging the FAA’s budget leaving Boeing (worse than the Wall Street Banks) with de-facto self regulation!

Keep voting Republican and the US will full degrade into a banana republic.....with the worst public education system since George Washington!3.	Manufacturing FOD is an old, well known and common problem in aircraft manufacturing. I worked at Grumman in the 1970’s, who built F14’s for the Navy. When a plane rolled off the line for post-production flight test before delivery, they would roll the aircraft upside down with negative G’s to shake loose and items (tools, bolts, etc.) that didn’t belong there (see <a href="https://bit.ly/2VgDNT8" target="_blank">https://bit.ly/2VgDNT8</a>). That’s not practical for a 787, but it’s surprising that a company with the rich history and experience of Boeing seems to be having difficulty with this.America ignores a corrupt president who lies, steals us blind and destroys our democracy...now are you going to ignore a billion dollar corporation who builds shoddy planes that fall out of sky just to maintain your investment portfolio.  I for one will never fly on another Boeing plane... that’s how you fix this.I wonder what planes these bigwigs fly on? I would bet its not a plane built by Boeing.As expected Boeing is responding aggressively to this story, which does appear to have at least one inaccuracy:  
From the Charleston Post Courier: 
"While airline officials did criticize North Charleston workers in 2014 over delivery delays, Qatar Airways did and continues to take delivery of jets built at the plant.

“We have over 100 Boeing aircraft in our fleet, manufactured in both Everett and (North) Charleston, with many more to join in the coming years as part of our significant long-term investment in the U.S. economy,” the airline said in a statement."

<a href="https://www.postandcourier.com/business/after-reports-of-shoddy-production-at-north-charleston-dreamliner-plant/article_cc0cbf86-638d-11e9-ba7f-e7ec2937b77f.html" target="_blank">https://www.postandcourier.com/business/after-reports-of-shoddy-production-at-north-charleston-dreamliner-plant/article_cc0cbf86-638d-11e9-ba7f-e7ec2937b77f.html</a>America under Trump and the lawless Republicans is now known for shoddy deals. If Top down corruption deceit, lies, and incompetence goes unchecked in government why not industry? The American Brand is tainted.So even Boeing.  Everything’s falling apart.If you cannot find an Airbus flight for your trip, then Fly Greyhound.I'm quite surprised this article didn't mention the Al Jezeera video documentary from 2015 "Broken Dreams" as it documents most everything mentioned hereThis begs the question of criminality on the part of Boeing’s management.Wow! Boeing  should change the name of its 787 to the "Nightmarecraft". What has happened to the state of advanced American manufacturing? Is this another frightening example of placing profit/shareholder value over public safety concerns? Thank you NYT for this important investigative journalism.Part and parcel of what Trump-Pence have brought to us.Having performed internal and managed external reviews and audits of alleged wrongdoings, I can say with some experience that at a company the size of Boeing, “hundreds” of pages of emails and interviews with former employees in active retaliation or discrimination cases against the employer is neither thorough nor comprehensive enough to support the accusations (implied or express) here.  It is enough to warrant further review to reduce bias and improve confidence.  One hopes that the Times will also review Airbus or other manufacturers to establish a baseline of some sort, and then use that to identify what’s normal and what’s not (even though if loose debris is normal, that’s a problem if it’s own).  Then there’s the problem of the Times’ own journalistic agenda - is investigative reporting by the Times as reliable as a third-party audit?  We all fly in Boeing planes and the company’s (preceding) record of safety raises a presumption of competence, rebuttable though it certainly is.  Ultimately we just want answers, not news stories that just happen to fit the contemporary narrative.Just another example of Big Government regulations stifling the Free Market....oh wait, I read the article upside down......Sadly, it's the corporations and government that are at fault for  what has happened to safety issues in the USA. 

Just a while back, Fisher-Price finally launched a recall of infant-sleepers after 30 babies had died in these sleepers over a period of 10 years. This recall covered about 4.7 million sleepers that had been manufactured since 2009.  

Then there were mining safety issues also in past years. 

Until the US Government stops being pressured by industry and is allowed to enact penalties,fines and better inspections for improper production controls and safety, there will continue issues that will still occur that borders on life and death situations!And then, God help us all when one day, Boeing decides to attach new engines to the 787 Dreamliner and then adds a software patch to compensate for an aerodynamic imbalance.It is my understanding that the planes in these two crashes behaved exactly as intended.  Clearly, the control software has some serious issues that need attention and the idea of redundant systems was overlooked, but the plane worked as designed.  While Boeing may have manufacturing problems, I haven't heard anything to suggest that the two recent 737 Max incidents are at all related to lax manufacturing oversight.Calls for greater  government oversight; the industry ought not be allowed to be the only judge of its safety standards.  No entity can be an objective  judge  in its own case.A story familiar to those in many other sectors, I imagine.  Lots of suits buying into corporate group think (go along to get along), finding ways to increase “productivity” that actually create public safety threats.  In my sector, health care, we live the lie each day, pressured to see more and more patients in less and less time, assured that electronic records and computer algorithms will fill the gap of a carefully taken patient history and thoughtful review of past records and studies.I spent my whole life designing and then selling Jet Engines for GE all over the world. I know how Jet Engines are manufactured and how Aircrafts are manufactured. 
This article if accurate would have caused at least one if not more catastrophic accidents of B787 to date. Ordinary people who have no knowledge of Aerospace industry will buy this over exeggerated story but I DO NOT BUY IT.
Yes, short cuts do take place, mistakes are made and coverd up.
But one thing we in the Aerospcae Business are taught from the day one that there are no short cuts when it comes to safety and design. If the Engine fails or the Aircraft fails; you don't pull over the side of the raod and call AAA.  PEOPLE DIE, YOUR BUSINESS DIES AND EVENTUALLY YOU (SORT OF) DIE.
You have a very short career if you use short cuts on safety or design. It is one thing that will terminate the career of an employee before you can say 1,2,3.
The mistakes that are exeggerated here will be corrected and, I think, are corrected.
Remember, a number of these guys are fired and are disgruntled employees. 
I am NOT saying that mistakes are not made or faults were not hidden or short cuts were not taken but not the way it is portrayed here. It just simply can NOT happen in this business and the business survive.Airlines have given healthcare examples of the value of checklists and standardizing to make medical procedures safer and now maybe airline manufacturers should follow those examples. And just like in surgery, any airline service should include a tool count before and after every encounter and a debris check. Anyone inspecting or working on the plane should be part of the team that can be found liable for damages caused by their negligence. I'm guessing they'd all be a bit more careful.Thanks for the reporting, but now I'm nervous because I fly very often.  I have flown United for years because of elite status, but now when I make a reservation I look to see the model of the plane.  For the past several months it's always 757 or Airbus.  But, there is no way to check where it was made.Is it possible that some of these employee complaints are part of a union-led campaign to harass a non-union Boeing facility? It wouldn't be the first time a union has tried to cloak its organizing activities in a safety or other public benefit campaign.The consequences of ignorance are not bliss.

How many Boeing certified Six Sigma employees are there in the greater Seattle area versus the greater Charlottesville area...? If you are manufacturing appliances and autos, you may not need that many.

The development of the 787 Dreamliner was to pave the way to a much more sophisticated way to built a commercial aircraft.  To build them all 'the same way,' and with a completely new manufacturing method, demanded a degree of difficulty several orders of magnitude higher. Including tracking parts from suppliers, with little room for errors and impact to schedules.

The legacy of building aircraft using a metal alloyed outer-shell body could run into possible supply shortages in metals commodities. But it was a very tried and true, very labor intensive and trust-worthy way to build aircraft. Everyone who build those planes knew what the signs of quality and craftsmanship were and could spot something that doesn't look, feel, or smell right.

However, introducing a stronger-lighter weight materials has as many drawbacks to it, as well to it's advantages. The manufacturing process has plenty of new health concerns. Carbon dust is very messy, itchy and terrible to breath.

Boeing chose to build a factory in a non-union 'right to work state' to avoid strict union norms that methodically incorporate best practice standards.

In other words, on this day of 4/20, the want to hire Zig-Zag Kutcorners® when they should employ Bambú...!You can’t buy bad publicity like this...My Dad purchased a Chrysler in the 80’s with a vent welded shut with a beer can inside of it. When he found out the dealer and Chrysler basically told him to pound sand. 

He stopped buying American cars soon after. You know, airbus wont be the only competitor for long. China is making passenger jets now and by hook, crook, and genuine innovation they will catch up. And Boeing can either have a good reputation or a bad one and depending on which it has at that future date will determine a lot of things.Boeing employment numbers increased from 147K in 2009 to 157K in 2012.  This corresponded to a post crash period where the dollar dropped in value to a competitive level and US manufacturing exports surged in response.  But then Boeing employment fell continuously to 141K in 2017, and during most of that time the dollar had surged again to pre-crash levels, hurting US exports.  To make quality products requires sufficient employees.  To hire sufficient employees it is helpful to have a competitively priced dollar.

    I don't mean that other factors aren't involved - there are a number of intertwined factors, and the overvalued dollar is only one of them.  But it is a vital factor because without a competitive manufacturing export sector the US economy is unsustainable and how it will fail is unpredictable.  The longer this problem remains unaddressed, the harder it is to fix it, and the less predictable the outcome.      

  The right place to start is to be positive about manufacturing export growth and place that as a priority.  Only then can we willingly make the sacrifices (weaker dollars and less purchasing power) required to get back on course.As the Times implied in previous reporting, the failures at Boeing for the 737 MAX were senior management's rush to bring to market a plane that short-cutted the certification process by claiming it was just a minor modification of an existing workhorse model.
. . . . . . 
But fitting heavier and more powerful engines on the MAX  significantly changes both center of gravity and rotational thrust around the pitch axis. 
. . . . . . 
To optimize performance, this should have required major changes in wing design and how and where they attach to the fuselage, which would be an entirely new plane requiring years more to be certified. 
. . . . . . 
So Boeing tried to compensate for the resulting inherent aerodynamic instability of the MAX by jury-rigging it with hidden  MCAS software. To avoid additional pilot training on this "fix", they kept it unknown to pilots and avoided clear mention of it in the plane's manual.
. . . . . . 
So the blame for over 300 deaths lies with management's priority of profit over safety, and the FAA's acquiescence in an era when Republicans obsess with "unnecessary regulation".
. . . . . . 
With today's reportagae on the B-777 Dreamliner, we can either pray that loose tools and construction debris tossed around during turbulence never bring down this plane. 
. . . . . . 
Or, the flying public can demand that the FAA order every one recalled to factory for thorough internal searches to remove these safety threats.Follow the money:

Boeing managers to get annual bonuses of 12.5% to 22.5% Boeing's managers companywide are getting a much fatter 2014 bonus than the engineers or Machinists.
Feb 20, 2015
www.seattletimes.com..."South Carolina has the lowest percentage of union representation in the nation, giving Boeing a potentially less expensive work force."...Employees are concerned about debris, tools, etc being found in the planes. Who is leaving this stuff in the planes? The employees. They should take some responsibility. Managers are not going into the planes and leaving tools and garbage.

It is  so easy to blame the company and management. This generation never wants to take responsibility for their actions. It is always somebody's else fault.al Jazeera covered this five years ago, complete with hidden camera video in the plant and workers saying, "I'd never fly in one of these". Check out Youtube. (And it isn't just Qatar that is refusing deliveries of South Carolina 787s.) Now that the NYT is on the story, it will finally be a story in the US.

Will the Air Force, which has halted deliveries of new Boeing tankers due to "tools and debris found in planes", now change its mind with Boeing-boy Shanahan heading DOD? We'll see.

One thing we can all be sure of: Boeing will keep up its ambitious share buyback program, even as it drains cash needed to fix this growing series of disasters. The CEO wants his bonus, after all. He'll keep right on maximizing shareholder value until the company ceases to exist.Searing indictment of Boeing!
Outstanding article by The NY Times. 
Dennis Murlenburg took home 30 million 
dollars last year.  The average salary of the non union worker at the terrible North Charleston Factory made $47,000 last year.  This encapsulates what is wrong with America.  Boeing is putting Profits before Safety! We should all be frightened. We did love the new 787, but after reading this article, my wife refuses to fly the 787 or 737 Max. I don’t blame her.  Boeing has fallen so far. It is beholden to its horrible CEO and its greedy shareholders. This is a lesson for all of corporate America.Punishing employees for reporting defects is a sure-fire way to guarantee a dangerous and shoddy product. Any manger who does this must be immediately fired, and any manager's boss who supports such bad behavior, including the CEO, should immediately resign or be forced out.Typical for many manufacturing environments. It’s probably similar at Airbus.Certainly management bears the ultimate responsibility for the quality of the planes. 

However, I expect a good chunk of the problem lies with the workforce in South Carolina, which is the third most un-educated state in the nation: <a href="https://www.usnews.com/news/best-states/rankings/education" target="_blank">https://www.usnews.com/news/best-states/rankings/education</a>

At the end of the day, it is management's fault for choosing their workforce based on tax incentives as opposed to a more wholistic analysis including education, literacy, and critical thinking.This story confirms that the lax manufacturing quality control at Boeing is systemic, and not limited to the Max 8. I have continued to ask whether similar problems occur at Airbus but still have no answers. Would be nice to know. I hope a Times reporter is looking this.These are not news to anybody who lives and works in the United States. It describes the work environment of nearly every American. 
These are the same issues being reported even in coal mines, with the environmental regulators. They're the same issues being reported in nearly every work place, in the health industry etc etc. 
I work with special needs people, and this is the same issue, with staff and funding cuts, yet the same level of care is somehow expected and demanded. 
This, to me, sounds like a national culture of greed by financial interests, where the bottom end is what now defines the country, at the expense of excellence. 
The problem is in some cases, such as planes, the negative consequences are more publicized. 
So, unfortunately, this is not news!! it's the American way!!!!!Don’t you think it’s about time they fired the Chairman/CEO?How hard is it to clean debris out of a plane before delivery? Common sense says it's not hard at all. Negligence? Gross negligence? Sabotage?You can trace some of this to the former Boeing CEO James McHenerny who left the company in 2015.  He was trained at General Electric and almost became the CEO of GE in 2001 when Jack Welch retired.  General Electric produced horrible mangers who were short sighted Bean Counters.Why would a company move headquarters from where the company operates to Chicago?

One reason, and only one reason.  They hired a new CEO and that's where he wants to live.

And what were the CEO's qualifications for the job?  He had extensive experience building airplanes?  Repairing them?  Flying them?  Ah, flying in them!Just another reminder that arrogance kills,  from the 737 Max disasters to the manufacturing problems with the 787 Dreamliner and the subsequent problems that will arise.Proof is the large number of 787's crashing so often.Nikki Haley, as a governor of South Carolina, was a strong union buster and & bragged about it. Too bad this article overlooks who in politics helped ensure that Boeing kept unions out.The 737 Max story would be hilarious, if it wasn’t so tragic and serious. That is to say, 350 ( dead ) people.

The plane had a tendency to fly upward, to the point where it would stall, so they came up with a software fix to tell the plane to not do that ????

That would be a major jerry-rig solution to a fundamental design flaw.

And from there, things got worse, with the pilots not being told about this, because they wanted to sell the plane as being one that didn’t require any new pilot training.Weak oversight and absurdly regressive labor law are precisely why Boeing located in South Carolina.American motto in any kind of field “ Just get it done , no matter what the consequences will be “ .
Corporate America wants to rob you blind , even when your life is at risk , just profit counts , “ pecunia non olet “ .
I see this often even in medicine , so many unnecessary surgeries , so many expensive useless drugs prescribed just because big Pharma  is bombarding us daily on tv with perverse innuendo  advertisements about their miracle costly drugs .“Boeing South Carolina teammates are producing the highest levels of quality in our history,” Kevin McAllister, Boeing’s head of commercial airplanes, said in a statement. “I am proud of our teams’ exceptional commitment to quality and stand behind the work they do each and every day.”

And Boeing also insisted insisted insisted the 737-8 was safe to fly until they grounded it and found even more problems with it.   Boeing, your behaviour is sociopathic.Interesting there isn't reporting on the Washington-based 78 plant in Everett, like a Union plant doesn't produce shoddy work?!  From what I read, there was a retired employee who filed a Whistle-blower complaint that does not appear to have been substantiated.

The article is short on perspective from the constituents that really matter: the FAA, customers and their CAAs.  More importantly, very demanding customers like Singapore Airlines, Emirates, and British Airways are taking planes from Charleston.  

NYT - You can do better.One very big correction to this story. There is no industry where “ safety is paramount”. Not anymore. Profit is paramount.  Safety, if it gets done at all, is well down towards the bottom of the list. Boeing exemplifies this sad reality.There are NO secrets.  When will people learn?As someone who has tried to convince herself to stop being afraid of flying, this is a huge blow. I feel completely betrayed as a consumer; lied to; and duped. This really shows that profit-thirsty companies are rarely aligned with what’s best for the consumer. Thanks, Boeing.I choose not to fly on a Boeing Aircraft...
Sad, it has lost its previous great reputation.Then Governor Nicky Haley was on record while governor as saying that South Carolina didn't want any unionized workers in her state because they would poison the market for cheap labor. She didn't know, nor would she have cared, that well trained and experienced workers will not accept shoddy and unsafe practices and they are not afraid to speak out because the union contract protects them from reprisal from employers who don't care about safety and quality. 

Boeing's reputation has been tarnished by its decision to sacrifice quality for profit. Air Bus, with their decision to produce in Alabama, is exposed to the same situation. 

Volkswagen is experiencing the same questions of quality and confidence after they chose to go to Tennessee where Sen. Bob Corker got on television to discourage employees from joining the UAW.  

Cheap quality results from a labor force that is hired based on cost. An employer gets what they pay for. Can the public rely on such employers to produce a product that will keep them safe?It now seems like the 737 MAX and the 787 Dreamliner are the twenty first century Ford Pinto's.
Boeing, if these reports or correct are make planes like the U.S. auto industry made vehicles in the 1960's & 1970's. causing the American auto buying public to switch to Toyota & Nisan.
With all its faults I believe the E.U. ha a better handle on quality control requirements as the U.S. FAA is just another civil service bureaucracy where no one wants to make waves and the higher ups do not want to hurt Boeing.
If they in fact did find these problems as the article states every one of the 787 aircraft should be taken out of service and examined.
Remember it was the 787 that had to be grounded because of the major battery problem. The plane that was certified to fly  by the FAA.
Now I see why Jet Blue and Delta do not fly these planes.Besides eliminating around 100 quality control positions, per current FAA regulations, Boeing is also allowed to "self-certify" its own planes.These are horrendous revelations.  I congratulate The New York Times for its determination in investigating Boeing's apparent indifference towards quality control in the manufacture of its latest aircraft.


The whole operation today seems to be economizing by any means possible.  I was quite taken aback when this extended to keeping payroll costs down by insisting upon non-union workers with dubious qualifications -- and very little skin in the game, to be honest.  So it is hardly surprising that unmotivated and potentially delinquent elements literary throw a monkeywrench into the works !

Would never fly on a Boeing plane again.  This brand name belongs to the growing list of irresponsible companies such as Volkswagen (diesel emissions fraud scandal) and Uber (zero oversight for recruiting drivers of uncertain skills and ethical caliber) giving contemporary capitalism a very bad name.There seems to be a serious lack in management
And technician training in South Carolina.
It points to an over emphasis on cost control 
And speedy production. That will spur competition
In markets like and China and rest  of Asia.
The once proud airplane industry might go the way the US automobile industry went."He took that to mean he shouldn’t put problems in writing." Mmm! They should have hired Roy Cohn. He also did not put it in writing, according to his greatest fan, Don Trump! It is astonishing that a company as big and as potentially great as Boeing obviously tolerates these kind of management practices -- as we can see, this is an extremely costly strategy. For the company. Not for its overly compensated senior managers, who only look at their CURRENT paychecks.I’m a United 2 million miler and had been gravitating toward trips on the 787 as it’s a nice ride. But if UA corporate knew of these issues - and I was already suspicious since the Max tragedies - I’ll book Delta longhaul going forward.Bombardier, an aviation competitor of Boeing's, got swept up in something similar in their streetcar production just last year.

Bombardier moved a production plant down to Mexico, chasing cheaper labour and dismantling Canadian union positions.

3 in every 4 streetcars produced for the city of Toronto in their initial order we're recalled due to "inferior frame welds" - an issue the company directly traced back to it's Mexico operations.

Airplanes are markedly much scarier when we're talking about "shoddy manufacturing", which is why I take pause when I see that Bombardier is moving more and more of it's airplane manufacturing south of the U.S. border.

"The first 67 streetcars out of 89 produced for Toronto by Bombardier Transportation will be sent back for preventative repairs of “inferior frame welds,” TTC spokesman Brad Ross said Wednesday.

The problem identified by Bombardier 18 months ago involves work completed in Mexico."This was a truly disquieting article. 
I have always trusted Boeing, and, having flown four of their aircraft when I was an airline pilot, always felt very good about the Boeing product.  
Now I feel less so, and have sold the about $10,000 of Boeing shares for fear of the consequences of the 737 MAX accidents and articles like this one.
Incidentally, the quote; " ...  “I am proud of our teams’ exceptional commitment to quality and stand behind the work they do each and every day.” ... " make me question why, if Boeing is so committed to safety and quality, so many "whistle blowers" are so harassed?I think now , circa 2019, this kinda thing with Boeing can be accurately termed 'The American Disease'. From Facebook to Pfizer and from Equifax to 21th Century Fox it seems over the last few years corporate America has given up on playing by the rule book, and has instead simply focused it's energies on just how to cut corners and get away with, in it's pursuit of the bottom line. 

 And why not?   Over the past 10 12 years consumer protection laws and Federal oversight organizations have been cut back, gutted and bullied into oblivion or simply neutered to the point where the American public is not  outraged (or even surprised) when it hears about such obviously underhanded maneuvers as Boeing selling it's latest premier planes, while cutting back on both the aircraft's quality controls and it's essential safety features.

 It's obvious that only unless or only when the American voter gets fed-up enough to vote out the politicians who have been enabling such low shenanigans to be played out in the corporate board rooms across the country, will anything change-And not until then.Boeing and the FAA have a problem:  
Neither are holding corporate management fully accountable for the many documented failures.  

A similar problem was exposed in the 2008-2009 meltdown of our financial markets.  

Each suffers from the same failed ideology of allowing corporations to regulate their activities, resulting in catastrophes. 

Each seems to occupy a special position of being considered "too important to fail".  

We need a very clear line between corporations and well funded government regulators.I am pro-union.

But growing up in the 1960's and 70's I remember unions weren't all the pure.

I remember Jimmy Hoffa.

Chicago city workers got a mandatory 1 hour overtime for an extra 15 minutes on the clock. How many workers worked until 5:15 every day.

And it seemed more like a fight between Detroit automakers management and the UAW for a division of the spoils.

Then came Japan.

My impression is that now the Detroit and UAW are doing better if not good.

Also, Germany seems to have a good relationship with unions and management with a couple of union members on boards typically.

Germany is known for high-tech manufacturing and has a very high trade surplus. And they have faced the same globalization we have.

Of course according to Republicans, that is the "terrible socialism" that is pushed by people like Bernie Sanders and now a new generation represented by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.Time for another congressional hearing. Let’s get these fired workers on tv telling stockholders and potential passengers about how Boeing still doesn’t get it. 

Executive heads need to roll.As an act of patriotism, I'm rooting for Boeing to loose huge market share for years to come.Boeing have to build 787 on the cheap because the entire program was a strategic mistake. Boeing designed the 787 to slot under 777 and take marketshare from the very popular Airbus A330.

787 is more efficient and high tech than A330 so Airbus considered re-engine the A330 to come close to 787’s efficiency and sell it for cheaper because it is cheaper to build. Airlines rejected this and want an even better plane so Airbus came up with the superior A350. But Airbus didn’t stop there. Airbus still re-engined the A330 to make A330neo and price it below 787 with similar efficiency on shorter routes.

787’s asking price is therefore tied to the cheaper A330neo and not the A350. If 787 is asking for more, airlines would buy the cheaper A330neo or the more capable A350 and from what’s available, Boeing is giving big discounts on 787 orders."Regulators and lawmakers are taking a deeper look at Boeing’s priorities, and whether profits sometimes trumped safety."
No kidding. Is this a surprise? And why, pray tell, is this problem so prominent at the South Carolina plant, and not in Everett? Could the presence of a union have an influence? 
As someone who works in aviation, I can tell you that profits always trump safety. The management is interested in making money, and if you have to cut corners to increase shareholder value or increase salaries and bonuses, well then gosh darn it, cut corners! But the union protects workers who observe and report unsafe practices, because we all want a safe airplane. If a mechanic or quality control supervisor is fired for addressing safety problems, that has a very strong deterrent effect on coworkers; seeing your peer or boss losing their job certainly can chill the safety culture that every manager in every aviation business purports to value.  People who complain that the gubmint is interfering and we need to cut regulations should think hard about that when they read a story like this--and I am confident that this is not a needle in a haystack.This SC Boeing plant is not unionized. It's no surprise that it has problems with shoddy manufacturing. Unions give workers the right to speak out about problems. With no union, they just keep quiet out of fear.Boeing is doing to itself what AG William Barr just did to himself - ruining their own reputation in plain view of everybody.

Boeing, and every other manufacturer, needs to understand that shortchanging the customer (and that is what they are doing trying to foist defective products on consumers) is going to result in their own downfall.

When you are in the business of building a sophisticated, high cost product, moving your production to a non-union location (where they did not have a workforce worth hiring) sounds like a bone-head play to me, but the management of Boeing obviously knows better.In some ways this entire story shouldn’t surprise anyone.  Culturally, we’ve gone from making sure that things work properly before they’re released to the public to “it’s more important to be first than to be right.”  This spans everything: from software (which in some ways introduced the idea, since “just reboot” became a standard answer to reported problems) to news (one example: the premature reports of Michael Jackson’s death) to automobiles (countless recalls) to airplanes.  We can live with some things, but you can’t “just reboot” when a plane is 35,000 feet in the air."Boeing said it was eliminating about a hundred quality control positions in North Charleston."   Well that's one way to improve  product quality - reduce the number of people looking for problems!  For perspective, General Electric was once a great company until a couple decades of putting profit ahead of product - it can happen to Boeing. There are parallels.Since its move to Chicago, Boeing has become greedier and greedier. This should be a case study for all companies driven by C suite greed. Boeing is notorious for benefitting off the backs of freelancers - even at senior level positions. Recruiters specializing in freelance placements comb LinkedIn for candidates, offering VP and Director level employees the opportunity to work for Boeing contract for about a third of what they should be paid - with no benefits -  no sick days, no health care, no vacation, no nothing. Worse - these freelancers won't be considered for a full time position until after an 18 month employment period. In short, they are churning freelancers to keep full time employees off the books while not paying a fair wage for the talent they require. 

No one could be happier to see these practices come down on this company like a ton of bricks. I only hope that the other companies who are guilty of the same practices - that includes you Baxter and Abbot - learn from this jolt of reality. 

The party's over, fat cats.You can tell Boeing management is incompetent from their bland response statements. If they were smart, they’d say how concerned they were about these allegations - even if they weren’t - and they’d detail the action they’ll take - even if they never plan to follow through.  

Meantime, at the factory … You can train willing people to do anything if you treat them right. Obviously, Boeing doesn’t know how to do this, and it’s going to lose billions as payback because these stories are clearly just the beginning.This superb article illuminates so many elements that bedevil not just Boeing products but much of the Republican/Wall Street-driven business culture in the United States today: a race to the bottom in terms of costs, reducing regulatory oversight, anti-union impulses, retaliating against conscientious managers and whistle-blowers, and regulatory capture. Boeing should be held accountable for its actions, starting with the firing of its top executives and criminal investigations of their conduct. I also hope that the 2020 campaign sees such issues aired as part of the broader debate over the directions this country should take.Is it possible this story is the product of pro-union bias?  North Carolina is a right-to-work state and the unions in Washington State were furious that Boeing picked North Carolina to build airplanes,Why should management care ? They will never be held accountable for crashed planes. Engineers and workers have to fill THAT role. For management the worst case scenario would be to loose their position and cash in on a huge compensation package. Plus, after raking in billions in salaries over the years - does it even matter ?As some one said: Boeing used to be an aircraft engineering and production firm based in Seattle. 

Then about 20 years ago, it became a sales company based in Chicago, where it never really had a presence.Speaking of the 737 Max-8 crashes.

The 737 Max-8 costs on the order of $120 Million.

The problem of the angle of attack sensors could be detected and there is an option to put a cockpit warning light for the problem.

Rather than just put the cockpit warning light in all planes, Boeing made it an option that cost $80,000.

It is hard to believe the warning light costs Boeing an extra $80,000. 

Likewise, if it cost Boeing $10,000 just put in the plane and add $10,000 to the already $120 Million price tag.Perhaps an example where the concept of Shareholder value overrides all other concerns.After Toyota et al. showing the benefits of empowering workers to improve quality, Boeing continues to act like 1960s Detroit, and relies on corporate welfare in military contracts and legislative market protection rather than product quality.

In the absence of any meaningful whistleblower protection, worker empowerment or anything besides "get the iron on the door", the results are unsurprising.This focus is on Boeing, but that doesn't mean it's the only planes that aren't built safely. I've always been wary of flying simply because there is so much risk with much left to human error. A number of years ago there was the scandal about drunk and/or exhausted pilots. I hope I never have to fly again. It's been 12 years since I've had to fly so far.Funny how a once great company runs into trouble when it tries to save money by putting the squeeze on labor. It's almost like you get what you pay for.Union workers are GOOD workers!

"Look for the union label" was more than a song M

For Boeing to deliberately choose a location with no unions may have been a short term profitability hit but now look at the headlines .

And the endless investigations that will follow,"Workers have filed nearly a dozen whistle-blower claims and safety complaints with federal regulators, describing issues like defective manufacturing, debris left on planes and pressure to not report violations. Others have sued Boeing, saying they were retaliated against for flagging manufacturing mistakes."

Unbelievable reporting.  Thank you, NYT.  There's no way I want to fly on a Boeing plane, and I can't be alone in that.

Boeing, already under scrutiny for the MAX problem, had better take this reporting seriously.  Otherwise, some day it will find it self out of business and  the subject of a Harvard Business School case study on what happens when a great company starts tolerating errors, quality lapses, whistle blower punishment, and an unhealthy focus on speed over quality.I'm scheduled to fly on a Norwegian Air Boeing 787 to Paris next month. I wonder if there's any way to find out whether it was manufactured in Charleston NC as opposed to Renton WA.

If it was manufactured in the former, I want to cancel my trip. It's sad to see how our American air manufacturing industry has deteriorated; my motto now is: if it's Boeing, I'm not going.As a resident of the Pacific Northwest, where at one time it was "everything Boeing", where we could look with pride at that company as an aggressive and innovative place which put forth a multitude of terrific airplanes and other products, this news of the 787 issues on the heels of the 737 Max issues is disconcerting. While it may be justified to point to "Boeing" alone as the source of these problems, perhaps it's time to look within the organization to its leadership and discover why this seemingly dangerous trend is happening.

It's apparent that the CEO "class" of leadership at Boeing earns huge salaries and other incentives and that there is a disproportionate relationship between the earnings of the top few and the rest of Boeing's workforce. Whereas the top of the organization may well be worth these huge amounts of money, dragging the rest of the company down with unreasonable expectations at the risk of cutting corners and affecting safety, is just plain wrong.

It may not amount to criminal behavior, but it is the mark of poor decision-making when the interests of safety of passengers and crew are sacrificed for the seeming need to win competitive battles with other manufacturers. 

Boeing is a great company. Its history demonstrates the quality aviation products that have led the world for many years. But it may be time to install a leadership group that can "win" while at the same time take aim at and enforce proper safety measures.It's astounding how a company who's success is so dependent upon quality and safety can chase after speed and profit instead. One has to wonder at the lack of judgement and ethics on the part of many at the top of management in that company.Ask the feudal labor-philosophy MBAs and bean counters in Chicago and St. Nikki Haley why Boeing Charleston has always had problems. Boeing "transformed" from a respected aeronautical engineering-oriented firm to a Wall Street-charming accounting challenge. Without experienced organized labor to keep them halfway honest in South Carolina, "production" has become a fantasy world where schedule drives wisdom instead of the reverse.

This quarter's stock price is king. Reminds me of the story of a farmer that went on an efficiency program with his plowhorse, cutting back its food a small percentage per week: "Just as it was starting to show real results, the danged horse died on me."The Federal Agencies charged with regulating the aviation industry and the many other industries throughout the US are not solving these issues because they are currently being run by business interests rather than by civil servants invested in the safety, security, finances, and health of our everyday citizens!Union workers are GOOD workers!

"Look for the union label" was more than a song M

For Boeing to deliberately choose a location with no unions may have been a short term profitability hit but now look at the headlines .

And the endless investigations that will follow,Boeing gets what it paid for.  Moved from a union friendly state which has high quality, but higher paid workforce, to a virulently anti-union, dirt poor wages state, to save a few bucks and maximize investor profits and executive salaries.  This outcome was predictable, and the bargaining unit in Washington State actually predicted this during the fallout in 2009.  Seems like the best advertising for the flying public to watch for MD or Airbus in their future flying plans.When Boeing puts a plane (737-800 Max) with an inherent design flaw (the tendency to pitch up and stall suddenly during a post take-off climb), then patches it over with software that itself had two unimaginably inane design flaws (lack of effective control input redundancy and no functional cockpit override), THEN avoided recertification by not fully informing pilots of the changes and emergency mitigation procedures - all in the rush to deliver the plane in time to compete with Aerobus - the latest revelation of safety issues with the Dreamliner are not at all surprising. 

The lesson: from Oxycontin to Facebook to Boeing  and many, many others, corporate greed and cover-up is now an all too typical corporate value that repeatedly overrides consumer safety.  What a sad situation we have in America these days!Problem is not the company but low quality workers including some unqualified managers.
No job, no training, and no good workers. 

Thanks to Trump, manufacturing jobs are coming back to America, and all will be better and better as time goes on.Let's face it, this is a wider failure of our business and national culture. Everyday, in large and small ways, consciously and subconsciously, we pretend that cutting corners gives us a leg up. Ignoring long term consequences. The problem is more widespread than we want to accept.Boeing union members in Washington state warned about this when executives decided to move to South Carolina to pay lower non-union  wages. 

Guess they were right.“The F.A.A. issued a directive in 2017 requiring that Dreamliners be cleared of shavings before they are delivered.”

Federal regulators had to issue a directive forcing Boeing to do what should be simple good manufacturing practice. And basic housekeeping. 

Boeing proves why industry can not regulate itself. And why we need strong independent regulation and enforcement.With a domestic policy of waning oversight and industry regulation, the only way to rain in the corporate greed is by boycotting the purchase of the offender’s products by users and refusal by the general public of services provided via the use of these same products.I took a Fear of Flying course at San Francisco airport to help me understand how planes work so I would be more comfortable flying. The teachers reassured us that the plane makers make redundancy standard on their aircrafts and inspect them many times to make certain they are safe.  But not Boeing--once sensor? Tools and debris left in the planes? Boeing just made a lot of nervous fliers never want to get on their planes again including me.When you build a complicated machine, you inspect it.  

Manufacturing probabilities are that things will be found that need fixing.

Demonstrable from this article, Boeing has inspectors doing their job.

People should be happy there are inspectors and they are doing their job.Boeing management violated the number one rule in aviation..."Safety Of Flight"...with the engineering design of the B737 MAX (Death) aircraft. It now appears that the "number one rule" violation has been extended to include the B787 manufacturing process.a bottle of milk needs to meet safety standard before it hits the supermarket shelf, to make sure, well, that it doesn't kill people. As a consumer I might have my preferred brand of milk but I can reasonably assume that all bottles of milk sold in the supermarket are safe.

Should I, as an average passenger, really start to investigate which type of plane my next flight is and from which factory it is made? When that's the case, it's the government's problem too.As a frequent flyer after reading your article, I will insist on Airbus planes for my upcoming flights. This is the only way to subdue greedy managers in this country: a failing bottom line coming from customer actions!This was the accepted form of management at Trump University.  Build a brand, quickly cheapen it out, and run away with the profits.  Who cares about the next guy?I firmly believe Boeing began its slide into mediocrity when it acquired McDonnell Douglas in 1997 and the MD bean counters vaulted into Boeing senior leadership team, marginalizing Boeing's engineer-centric leadership.

The slide accelerated when, for no valid reason, Boeing's leadership decided to relocate corporate HQ to Chicago, completely divorced from the company's heart and soul. 

Mediocrity transformed into ignominy.Raw capitalism is all about the next quarter. 
Boeing is one of our Crown Jewels, and it’s being destroyed by Wall Street raiders. 
We need proper regulation to protect companies from irresponsible management, and perhaps Boeing would benefit from private equity ownership.The common denominator here is the bottom line of profit, the assembly line must move regardless. The repeated fact strongly suggests the workers were unable to complete tasks before the plane/assembly line had to move. What will be the market capital lost? Not a problem, hedge funds, private equity and derivative traders (after all that is what really counts) will make a fortune  shorting Boeing.May be it looks like a systemic problem with the so called misleading term "right to work" states where there are no unions. 

Under those circumstances, it is easy to suppress whistle blowers and and others who would slow down the production even if it costs safety for flying public. Nothing except the bottom line counts.

Unregulated capitalism at it's worst. Is that the best we can do?This is a perfect example of why the Republican mantra of deregulation results in an acceptable equation of allowance of deaths and costs.  Yes, it's possible to calculate the value of a human life based on statistical predictions based on legal damages, but it's not desirable.

Regulations  enacted by an independent body do save lives and prevent injuries.  Whether it's a ladder or a cup of scalding coffee, Money doesn't really serve as fair compensation, even it it is the only compensation possible.  And this is especially true of aircraft.  When they fail, the passengers rarely get to walk away from the resulting crash.This is what happens when a company sells out to McDonnell Douglas in a so-called merger many moons ago. MD have effectively taken over the company and are slowly in the process of driving Boeing into the ground the way they almost did with MD.
It's about time the Board recognized that and make some changes before Boeings existence is threatened.The men and women who build take pride of ownership with their product.  I suppose the bean counters and mahogany polishers take pride in their efforts as well, but theirs’s do not fly.  Theirs create markets, profits and schedules.  A distance away from assembly and love of assembly.  A while back Boeing sought to change from an aircraft manufacturer to a “large system integrator”.   Moving away again from actual assembly and love of building.  Even earlier Boeing was dedicating time and material to the “Toyota principal” where extra effort and quality would be welcomed by customers willing to pay extra for a higher quality product.  That initiative didn’t last a year.   Again those  people who love what they build, should not be forced or harassed to compromise their talents and craftsmanship for an unreasonable schedule or lack of support.   Sales always seem to lead production and that creates tension when unrealistic promises are made.   Boeing has been a company with heart, and it needs to reinvigorate that deeply held quality.All I can say after reading all these reports and checking those 2 accidents is that now I am really unwilling to be on any plane made by Boeing. This is for the first time that I am actually going to check which plane I am flying in. 
This is true that the world today has only one option other than Boeing and that is Airbus which lacks in delivery schedules so we have 'no option'. But still now is the time to actually give up on Boeing because they have shown that they are more inclined towards speedy delivery than safety. Safety in a business which requires The Highest Standards of SAFETY.
We as flyers should seriously give a thought cause we don’t want us and our family to be unsafe in the air at 35000 feet.I wonder what it must be like to be a South Carolina Boeing plant worker making 1/3 or 1/2 the wage compared to the Seattle union workers. I worked at Boeing for 30 years in the Seattle area and never had I encountered more talented, dedicated people with tremendous integrity. They would never had allowed this type of behavior.Profits over quality seems to be a problem. I am okay with that approach when manufacturing a tv or a kitchen sink. But for an airplane.. omg..  It's hard to resist bigger profits. But managers need to understand what's being given up when cutting corners. I have noticed that most employees are afraid to speak up. Employees have no protection in reality without Unions. HR only protects the company from being sued. If you have a decent salary and a comfortable life and a family depending on your income, why would you try to do anything to make it terrible? If people cannot find an equal paying job nearby, the whole system collapses. I've seen it too many times. All the safety certifications and ISO audits are a joke.Add to this delays with NASA's Space Launch System which NASA has explicitly blamed on poor management by Boeing.

Then think that our current acting Secretary of Defense, Shanahan, and potentially Trump's nominee for the position, is a long-time top Boeing executive. If so, I hope the Senate will do an extremely thorough investigation as to whether we really want a Boeing executive running the military..Has it always been like that and we just hear more about it now, or is it that quality and care, and pride in one's work are dropping steadily on every aspect of life and work in the western world in general. I am over 60 years old and my own experience is that everywhere I look and everything I experience in terms of quality of work, personally and professionally is showing unmistakable signs of amateurism, or plain and simple "who cares?" attitude.Boeing will always deny wrongdoing. Profits are more important  than people's lives.you have to appreciate American exceptionalism. we are number one is self righteousness and sanctimony.  no doubt about that. it's almost as if doing is harder than talking.Complete failure of their quality assurance program, indicating rot in their management.  This must be dug out before Boeing's products can be trusted again.This is very very sad.

It reflects poorly not only Boeing, but on the work culture at the plant in SC.

Even worse, this is exactly the problem represented by the current leadership of our nation, the Trump administration.

A culture of cover up, deceit and ultimately shoddy practices. Where lying is encouraged, honesty and integrity ridiculed.

It’s like the preverbal bad apple in the barrel. It quickly spreads to all the apples around and soon the whole barrel of apples is destroyed.

Boeing must step up and protect workers who take pride in their workmanship and to encourage better practices.Just like the Auto Industry. Management forced Demming to take defect free technology to JAPAN. MANAGEMENT demanded defective cars using cheap materials and enforced unrealistic high production speeds guaranteeing safety and quality issues and then blaming the problems on the union workers. How foolish to not take advantage of the experienced workers in Washington because they presumably were “infected” with unionism. Trading its reputation for OUTSTANDING QUALITY AND SAFETY for short term profits is CRAZY! Top management should be replaced 
And experienced unionized experts should be given bonuses to form an emergency quality control and safety enforcement team to move from Washington to South Carolina as soon as possible to reestablish the quality and safety standards that once made Boeing the envy of the world .Unregulated, unchecked capitalistic greed is like a cancer - it devours its host from the inside, until it collapses and dies. It seems that not even a proud company with a glorious history like Boeing could escape the current breed of sociopathic managers that are willing to sacrifice everything for an extra dollar of profit.

I hope that this is not the beginning of the end of Boeing. I would start with a shareholders’ rebellion to immediately fire the entire top management of the firm and replace it with real aviation professionals motivated by something else than unbridled greed.This is a devastating indictment. A much admired company, forgetting that the first rule should be “do no harm”, is cutting corners on safety, in order to save a few bucks. 

Morally wrong, and economically short-sighted. How much is Boeing losing on the 737 Max fiasco, in addition to the 300  souls lost? 

One more proof that self-regulation does not work. 

I guess one solution for them is:

“Boeing said it was eliminating about a hundred quality control positions in North Charleston.”Instead of wasting time chasing people like Barr and Mueller and Cohen, the Congress really needs to be hauling up CEO's of companies like Boeing to answer questions.

As a shareholder of the company, and a member of the flying public, I am scared and disgusted by this story.Here are Boeing's annual profits (net income) going back to 2005; (these are profits, not revenues).

2018	$10.5 Billion
2017	$8.5 Billion
2016	$5 Billion
2015	$5.1 Billion
2014	$5.4 Billion
2013	$4.6 Billion
2012	$3.9 Billion
2011	$4 Billion
2010	$3.3 Billion
2009	$1.3 Billion
2008	$2.7 Billion
2007	$4.1 Billion
2006	$2.2 Billion
2005	$2.6 Billion

This is yet another sociopathic American chapter in our long national arc of unregulated Greed Over People, sponsored by the radical right-wing and Wall Street greedheads who have a real problem with worker pay, humanity and regulation of greed.

The 'free-market' sociopathy and propaganda sponsored by the Republican Party for the last 39 years is bearing beautiful deadly fruit.

Vulture capitalism and the complete loss of ethics, honest and human decency are now the American brand.

This country needs an electoral exorcist.

Remember in 2020.

D for decency; R for record profits and slave labor....and planes falling out of the sky.When I have a choice, I will fly any aircraft other than a Boeing. I never thought I would say that.Shareholder Value > Human Value

It is the America way. So quit your complaining. Pay your taxes. And continue not to vote.A few other items worth pointing out:

1.	The Charleston 787 plant was never built as a Boeing facility. It was built by a joint venture between Vought and Alenia called Global Aeronautica, which had been set up to supply major sections of the 787 to Boeing.  That organization performed so poorly that Boeing was forced to acquire it in 2008 and 2009 from the owners to solve these problems and get the 787 on track after many delays. Boeing converted it to a second final assembly site for the entire aircraft (instead of just building pieces of the 787). This set up a parallel supply source which happens not to be unionized, unlike Seattle. Point is, the plant was not conceived or planned to do what it is now doing and the lack of skilled labor in SC was not Boeing’s concern at the time the plant was built by others.

2.	The article mentioned that the Air Force has halted delivery of the Boeing KC46 Tankers, but did not mention that this happened twice in a two-month period. The problem was the same as mentioned in the article (foreign object debris, or FOD), but this occurred in Seattle, not Charleston. It’s bad enough to be served a Stop Work order by your customer, but to continue to ship deficient product after being severely warned suggests that management is not fully in control of its factory.

Continued in next postMade is small government South Carolina.   People these are not T-shirts they are complicated machinery.    There are no irregulars.This was painful to read. A storied icon of American and world aviation history that built the B-17, B-29, and led the airlines into the jet transport age with the B-707.

It's as if they lost the recipe and then compounded it by fleeing Seattle's unionized work force to the south's "Right-to-Work" states where they could pay lower wages. . .but apparently weren't able to cultivate the same level of manufacturing expertise.Time to let Capitalism reign. If this company is making shoddy planes, let it either correct its mistakes of fail. Government subsidies and purchases of substandard equipment is not acceptable.Reading through these horror stories I couldn't help but wonder where is the union in all this?  Why aren't they protecting their workers and, ultimately, the company from itself?

And then, of course, you get to the part of this being a non-union shop, so virulently so that they won't even hire workers from union facilities -- i.e., those with experience working on these planes.

This is a classic example of the British saying "penny wise and pound foolish."  

Boeing would rather save on labor and safety in the name of short-term profits preferring to risk paying later, maybe with their entire business, as planes start falling out of the sky.What is the incentive for Boeing employees to highlight safety issues when they get fired, demoted or reassigned for sticking their necks out? 

And with these employees gone, who does that leave still employed by Boeing to care about safety?It seems like no one at Boeing is taking ownership of its planes.  Scary.Non-union labour, shoddy work practices, firing of whistleblowers, courts dismissing cases - do I detect a pattern here ?...

HenriIf the professional certified airline pilot is confident to fly the plane, I am willing to fly with him or her.The Royal Family in the Netherlands seemed very happy with their new Boeing 737 - they gave it a practice run all the way to Germany and nothing happened.And yet after a brief dip related to the 2 crashes, Boeing stock continues to remain at a lofty level.There seems to be a growing trend of unethical behavior in American corporations. Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs, Boeing, Chase, etc. I wonder if it is reflective of America in general accepting criminal, unethical, immoral, and corrupt behavior from our President.When the McDonald Douglas people took over management and moved headquarters to Chicago, the end was inevitable.Boeing moved to the south so they could be free of regulations. This is the result.This is really bad news. It’s a huge opening for Airbus. Coupled with an increasing international lack of trust in the FTA, as evidenced by the black boxes from the Ethiopian Air crash being sent elsewhere, it’s very bad news for the American aerospace industry.When plans for the South Carolina plant were announced Boeing's experienced unionized workers in Seattle warned explicitly and precisely about this.  Live and learn, huh.  Or die and learn, as the case may be.Unfortunately this is the end game of capitalism...profits above all else, right?This is American capitalism run amuck—

And unchecked by critical government agencies that we depend on.

Boeing has become “too big to fail”.Wonderful! More Russian Roulette and investment loss all around!Why is anyone surprised? There's a reason for regulations and an even more powerful reason for exacting enforcement. To those who push for deregulating everything and let our, "Honest, hardworking CEO's" get on with the business of making America Great Again, look no further than Boeing to see why business leadership can't be trusted and cannot be left to make decisions for the American people about what constitutes safety, not when their bonuses depend on output not quality.For fast action, limit Congressional and FAA travel to Charleston-made and Charleston-delivered Boeing jets.Instead of wasting time chasing people like Barr and Mueller and Cohen, the Congress really needs to be hauling up CEO's of companies like Boeing to answer questions.

As a shareholder of the company, and a member of the flying public, I am scared and disgusted by this story.@NYT.  Airbus has a factory in Mobile, Alabama where they are making airliners.  How about doing a story on that facility and make a comparison.  They should have the same problem of finding skilled workers as Boeing.Boeing should be nationalized. Make it part of NASA or something. Tired of the money hungry industrialists cutting corners and endangering our lives.  Airbus is nationalized by the way. They seem to be in good shape.Curious about:
-Safest Airlines and their Quality control (Qatar, Virgin Atlantic, Hawaiian.....)
-True nature of FAA working relationship to airline manufacturers 
-Accountability from Manufacturers and Airlines 

Whether the work is done after a crash, taking lives, requiring work to comfort, investigate, Treat, Report, Review root cause, and rectify. Or if the work gets done to Manufacture Airplanes the correct safey way....the work gets done. And unfortunately all parties are paid for work performed, however the responsible party doesn't appear to fully pay for the job creation on the tail end of these tradgeties.So some MBA sold them on the idea of moving to a cheaper area with non-union workers, leaving the highly skilled pool of aircraft builders adrift in Seattle. How's that working out for your bottom line these days?Sadly, Airbus is manufactured in socialist countries. One needs a careful scrutiny of the bias against Boeing.It is a matter of credibility and trust.  Boeing has no credibility and the public distrusts Boeing as it should.  Muilenberg needs to go.“Right to work” in action.When will the CEO,  COO and CFO of Boeing  resign, be fired and/ or indicted and arrested?3.	Manufacturing FOD is an old, well known and common problem in aircraft manufacturing. I worked at Grumman in the 1970’s, who built F14’s for the Navy. When a plane rolled off the line for post-production flight test before delivery, they would roll the aircraft upside down with negative G’s to shake loose and items (tools, bolts, etc.) that didn’t belong there (see <a href="https://bit.ly/2VgDNT8" target="_blank">https://bit.ly/2VgDNT8</a>). That’s not practical for a 787, but it’s surprising that a company with the rich history and experience of Boeing seems to be having difficulty with this.What is the reason for Boeing's woe's - how about rampant corporate greed for starters.

The share price is all that matters to Boeing executives.  Kill 350+ people?  How will the stock market react...It’s just a culture of carelessness and impatience that’s infiltrated American society. Just get in a car and drive anywhere if you don’t believe me.Wall Street wins again. This time at the cost of how many dead bodies?If Boeing is not careful, the airlines will show them the door...the one with the gummy seal.No more Boeing planes for me and my family, we'll find out who is flying Airbus and take those.Lousy workforce.  Look where they chose to put the new plant.  Boy, talk about union aversion.  Course, Boeing doesn't want the union so they can just can people without cause.

I fly airbus when I can.As Boeing has pushed over the past 10 years to control costs--employing non-union workers, terminating QC managers, moving their HQ from Seattle to Chicago--what have they done with all those savings? 

"Boeing raises its dividend 20%, boosts buyback plan to $20 billion, reaffirming its bullish outlook" 
-- CNBC headline, Dec 17, 2018 (<a href="https://www.cnbc.com/2018/12/17/boeing-raises-its-dividend-20percent-boosts-buyback-plan-to-20-billion.html" target="_blank">https://www.cnbc.com/2018/12/17/boeing-raises-its-dividend-20percent-boosts-buyback-plan-to-20-billion.html</a>)

Non-union workers have less company loyalty, and have been known to sabotage products. The Boeing corporate culture punishes those who identify problems instead of rushing product (aircraft!) out the door. 

Capitalism gone awry.Are you saying... it is all about the benjamins?And we confiscate nail clippers and water at the security line?   What a colossal joke.  Who needs terrorists blowing up planes when Boeing and its managers and executives are perfectly capable of doing it for us.  God help us all.Al Jazeera made a full length documentary on this very problem 2 or 3 years ago. It is available on YouTube.

MSM media ignored the Al Jazeera report because it wasn’t American and any attacking on Boeing is an attack on America.If it is Boeing I ain't going.In 2014, al Jazeera reported much of what is being described here. Search for "broken dreams 787". Forbes issues a lame critique of that documentary. Then, in 2016 al Jazeera reported on "editing" errors that were exposing whistleblowers - something that the U.S. press has yet to address thoughfully as the issue is now generalizing across US government agencies.
But at least, nice that the New York Times is addressing one of the US' major corporate scandals, even if 5 years later.As a project manager, I am appalled and surprised at the absence or lack of adherence to basic processes. Who is training and managing the workers on the floor?Worth noting that Boeing opened in SC to get away from its unionized Washington workforce.This is a direct consequence of the deregulation fervor that has been promoted, mainly by Republicans, over the last 20 years.

This will do immense damage to Boeing. It has sullied the reputation of an excellent agency, the FAA, and will cost everyone involved from employees to shareholders.

Unregulated capitalism is bad for everyone, particularly, in the long run, for capitalists.At least the 787's engines fit on its wings, without disrupting its lift. Not so for the 737 MAX, which is why it has that bogus add-on of software. I will NEVER fly on a 737 MAX.

Some may remember the way Boeing rushed out its equally bogus battery system in the 787, which resulted in groundings. It was Elon Musk of Tesla who publicly explained that you needed to separate such large batteries into smaller cells that could not produce a runaway fire.

I guess military contractors are used to doing bad work for gold-plated pay...With no union to defend the rights of whistleblowers, information can't propagate up the chain of management to decision makers and stake holders. With the FAA outsourcing inspections to Boeing employees, information can't flow from without.  

Boeing is, at this point, the only significant American manufacturer of  commercial aircraft, and, in right-to-work states, they use this power of labor market monopsony to silence those conscientious  employees who try to warn management about problems endangering airworthiness. They use this power to capture the national regulatory infrastructure which would otherwise  work to guarantee airworthiness. They even programmed solipsism into their MCAS system, and now deflationary realism has a body count.

Boeing, here, is a victim of an ideology which presents itself as business friendly but is, in fact, feudal solipsism - absent government regulation of quality and of the labor market, Boeing used its power to control the perception of its reality. 

The result may now plausibly be that Boeing may no longer be globally competitive. The solipsistic extremities of what we call business friendly public policy is not business friendly at all. It is, instead, a kind of treachery identified by Ellison: "agree'ed to death and destruction."It's clear that the problem is management, not the inspectors.  I think what needs to happen is that a system needs to be setup by the FAA where every employee in Boeing knows that they can get their boss fired- not the other way around-- for failing to act on a safety issue reported by them:

1) Make every employee log all safety issues into an FAA database _first_, before telling their manager, so that they are on record and Boeing cannot turn around and say that this is some disgruntled ex-employee throwing bombs.

2) Do not allow any airplane with outstanding logged safety issues off the ground until FAA inspectors have proven, to their satisfaction, that the issue has been addressed.

3) Make Boeing pay for the FAA inspectors time.

4)  Allow the FAA to report any cases they feel are indicative of obstruction or intransigence on the part of Boeing to the press.The reason Boeing built in South Carolina was NO UNIONS to interfere with their business practices.  BMW, a German company, didn't go that route.Boeing has sought to rely upon the courts, giant government subsidies, as well as the weight of US influence abroad, to thwart competitors such as Airbus and Bombardier. So it is easy to understand why so few people outside America have rushed in to defend the company. These revelations about the Dreamliner will only contribute to the optics of a corporation that has lost touch with core values, putting shareholders ahead of its customers. Watch for deep discounts on its 737 and 787 as the company recalibrated.How much were this workers paid by Chinese or Russian intelligence? They don’t play by the same rules when Trump and others talk of economic warfare. Our nation’s most valuable corporations and institutions are under attack.It is indeed disappointing that the highly esteemed Boeing corp. has engaged in rushed production at the expense of  the safety and quality of aircraft.  This is not really all that surprising in light of the bottom-line emphasis in our profit driven, get rich quick business culture.  I am dismayed however by he Times' tendency to emphasize  blame and shaming,  using unnecessary expletives  (to name a couple here, "trumpeted", "frenzied") in what is meant to be serious, for-the-record reporting; it makes me suspect the veracity of the material and lowers my interest.In a cutthroat competition with Airbus, it looks like Boeing's managers chose to lose.   

Pushing production, devaluing worker skills and treating QC staff as impediments instead of lifesavers was not in their best long term interests. 

Those in production never want to hear that they have serious problems from the quality control folks; a company which values quality has to separate management of QC from production, to maintain its independence and ability to stand up to pressure and demand changes where necessary.So, let me get this right...Acting Secretary of Defense, Patrick Shanahan, was at Boeing and held a key position for B-787 development and production.  Seems like poor leadership and bad performance continue to be rewarded.  I question the effectiveness of federal regulators, considering the position he now holds in the government.Great reporting by NYT

Also my admiration to the whistle blowers who have risked so much to expose the malfeasance at Boeing.

How many more people will have to die before a public outcry  forces Boeing to mend it ways?I am a big Boeing fan and want the company to do well, but with recent events they have a big PR issue on their hands that they need to take control of. 
I hope they recognize that and proceed accordingly.Interesting, but problematical..

Virtually all of the whistle blowers were employees who seemed to  have grudges and none of their claims related to bad treatment went anywhere.

The good news is that lots are flying and none has crashed. I would suggest your reporters talk more with the airlines who fly them and, by now, should have discovered bad parts, shoddy clear up of scraps, etc.Creating things so technologically advanced that they humanly can’t be built to function usefully and safely, somewhat belies the good of such technology.  Yet we want to encourage even more going forward for a supposedly brighter future?  Perhaps like the limits of the expanding Big Bang universe it’s time to start think about going back to where it all started instead on indulging in this delusion of infinite human potential.  Taking it too far and things only just relatively disappear not to mention expanding past the reaches of the sun’s rays kind of leaves us out in the dark and the cold anyway. Rebuilding Notre Dame better than it was but in it true original spirit might be a good place to start to see how that feels and even if we can go home rather than building giant flying coffins that crash all because one tiny little AOA sensor gets stuck.This is a somber report which comes down to the problems in American manufacturing: cost cutting, avoiding unions like the plague, having an uneducated workforce. We can't expect the American jobs to return if we don't manufacture quality products. Industry leaders should get some advice from Germany, with its excellence in technical education.The FOD issue is serious. Tools and loose parts jamming the flight controls and loose hardware blowing up an engine (“malfunction” is a weak euphemism) are pretty obvious.  Less obvious is that small debris and shavings can be just as catastrophic. 

I was riding in a friend’s old Bonanza and just for fun he did the zero-G maneuver. 10 years of aluminum slivers and shavings from him doing his own sloppy radio installations suddenly floated up and filled the cabin.

It got in our eyes and we were breathing it.  There was no escape. We all - including the pilot - had to shut our eyes and hold our breath. With his eyes shut, he managed to abort the maneuver, by braille. It took a disturbingly long time for the shavings to settle back into the carpet after we regained positive G so we could see and breath again.  At least we were far away from other aircraft and high enough. 

 Now imagine that in a big, heavy airliner on short final after it hits some turbulence or the wake of a bigger plane.  You and two hundred other folks die because some MBA was rushing some non-union grunt who literally swept it inder the carpet.Self-regulation works!  Except, when it doesn't.  (Oops, pardon our crashes but we have Wall St. investors to keep happy!)Boeing should have stuck with skilled and experienced union work force in Washington...the move to South Carolina illustrated management's "save a buck" ethos that at a certain point came before all else, including craftsmanship.2.	The article mentioned that the Air Force has halted delivery of the Boeing KC46 Tankers, but did not mention that this happened twice in a two-month period. The problem was the same as mentioned in the article (foreign object debris, or FOD), but this occurred in Seattle, not Charleston. It’s bad enough to be served a Stop Work order by your customer, but to continue to ship deficient product after being severely warned suggests that management is not fully in control of its factory.A simple actuarial calculation. 

Unless they get caught.1.	The Charleston 787 plant was never built as a Boeing facility. It was built by a joint venture between Vought and Alenia called Global Aeronautica, which had been set up to supply major sections of the 787 to Boeing.  That organization performed so poorly that Boeing was forced to acquire it in 2008 and 2009 from the owners to solve these problems and get the 787 on track after many delays. Boeing converted it to a second final assembly site for the entire aircraft (instead of just building pieces of the 787). This set up a parallel supply source which happens not to be unionized, unlike Seattle. Point is, the plant was not conceived or planned to do what it is now doing and the lack of skilled labor in SC was not Boeing’s concern at the time the plant was built by others.Wow, tombstone engineering meets shoddy workmanship and the gutting of quality control. The tipoff to lowered standards of management is the move to South Carolina for the sole purpose of avoiding unions. What the bean counters don't seem to realize is that if a few more of their planes crash the company is toast. There are real consequences to cutting corners and obfuscating the truth--it's not like Fox news.If employees who warn of safety lapses aren't being taken seriously by management, that speaks to a dysfunctional corporate culture as a whole. Too much entitlement and greed at the top, too many workers feeling powerless and concerned at the bottom. How does a company pull itself out of a dive like that? They need an intervention. And some big players need to lose their jobs.This is a failure of the Business School type management that have become common place in today's corporate world. The reigning philosophy is that a B-school graduate can manage any operation anywhere. 

But what is really being mandated is to increase profits by cutting down production time. So what if a few nuts and bolts are left behind. Before long, perhaps just one less rivet is needed on that wing panel. Hey, let's use this cheaper hydraulic tubing it save us a couple of bucks a plane, car, boat, whatever. 

Boeing is now suffering from its combination with McDonnell-Douglas. The management team from McDonnell took over from engineering types who ran Boeing. Engineers understand the process of building airplanes, B-school grads do not. Profit and deadlines replaced doing a good job, ensuring safety. Safety of the final product is worked further down on the priority list.This is the age of greed. Quarterly revenue, profits and executive bonuses trump shareholders, employees and customers.  Any thoughts of regulation and equities are met with cries of socialism.This is deeply worrying. QC inspectors are pretty important. As the 1980s print advert said "Because you can't pull over to check the oil at 35,000 feet."I used to believe that Boeing produced the highest-quality aircraft around. Not anymore! This article is profoundly disturbing on a number of levels. 

First, reports of debris, forgotten tools, a ladder (yikes!), metal shavings, broken parts, etc. mean that Boeing has lousy quality control and/or its workers don't care about quality. 

Second, Boeing tried to undermine its labor unions by building a plant in a heavily non-union state full of unskilled, uneducated people. You get what you pay for, Boeing.  Union workers at the journeyman level must go through years of apprenticeship to learn their trades. They aren't thrust into precision work with no training.

Third, Boeing seems perfectly comfortable with pushing production quotas, silencing critics and knowingly delivering airplanes with safety problems. Forget the lies and spin from Mr. Gordon Johndroe, Boeing's spokesman. Boeing is now producing dangerous aircraft. Very sad.This is working exactly as far right Republicans intend. No oversight; the market will correct itself. The problem is, of course, that someone must first be injured or killed in order for the market to be affected. I’m sure they never dreamed that there could be a huge ripple effect: loss of faith around the world in a major American manufacturer, prompting American job losses yet to be seen.An important factor in Boeing’s recent questionable manufacturing processes has been the increasing shareholder fixation, to the expense of all else, on short-term profit, and a political world, primarily Republican, that encourages it. This is another example of untethered capitalism not serving the broader public.Perhaps the airlines industry should adopt the model of the construction industry where building inspectors are employees of the government, ensuring independent evaluation that buildings meet specifications.  

The FAA could do the final quality quality control checks to ensure planes are safe (and any intermediate checks required for areas that might be covered).Sounds like an airplane to avoid when making travel arrangements. I had already reached the conclusion that Boeing was underestimating the pushback airlines are going to receive when they try to reintroduce the Max into service. When your credibility has been severely questioned, it is hard to regain. This just adds to the suspicion that all is not well with Boeing. Given a choice, why would you fly on any Boeing aircraft?And now Patrick Shanahan will be bringing the same professional ethics and expertise to the Department of Defense that he brought to Boeing.It seems that Boeing had its own version of "de-regulation" and we know what happened with bank loans under those conditions.Clearly, this kind of malfeasance starts at the top of the organization. Time for a thorough house cleaning at Boeing and a down to earth examination of the company's true culture and its compatibility with airframe safety. FAA regulatory practice in the Trump era is overdue for review as well.I have a true fear of flying. Every time I get on a plane I think my safety is dependent on the technical skill and ability to focus of each person who built and serviced the plane. That's crazy, I tell myself. There is oversight, professionalism, and checks to ensure safety, my voice of reason says. 
It seems my crazy voice is the one I should be listening to and my voice of reason is more wishful thinking when it comes to flying on a Boeing.How reassuring [not] that Boeing is "eliminating about a hundred quality control positions in North Charleston."   This should give all of us pause.  

This report suggests that the product coming out of Everett is better than that of North Charleston.  Why -- a better educated labor pool and unions.  The difference between Washington State and South Carolina -- Washington spends more educating their children and they don't stand in the way of workers organizing unions.This is not a worker problem.  It is a complete failure of effective operations management.   Automotive plants using Toyota style production would never have these problems but the implementation has to be driven by management.   Boeing has exposed that it has inept management.   All experienced manufacturing people understand that FOD is a marker for poor management.   Toyota should buy Boeing and they would fix it all in 12 months.It was a sad time in Seattle back in the early 1970's. Boeing was hitting hard times. The Vertol division was closed and moved to Philadelphia. Production was down in other sectors. Layoffs, transfers, buyouts and early retirements prompted billboards going up around town, "Last one out, turn off the lights." You have to wonder if rather than moving their headquarters and building production facilities elsewhere; they had decided to remain in Seattle with an established workforce, would they be better off today?A retired Boeing engineer told me Boeing used to be guided by engineers. But with the 747 things changed. MBA types took over. Then headquarters moved to Chicago. Boeing lost its soul with bean-counters and sales departments running things.Placard on the aircraft door:

Warning! The FAA has determined that this aircraft it is safe to fly without crucial safety features and without crucial manufacturing oversight.Thank you to the NY Times for this article. This crucial piece of journalism highlights the appalling lack of ethics in corporate managers and executives. This is not a new issue, and certainly not confined to the aviation industry.  Despite whatever is said in mission statements and public relations statements, the only thing that matters in the corporate culture is the stockholder. The well-being of the customer is a focus only to the extent that it doesn’t interfere with profits. I agree with the earlier comment that this shows why small government does not work. 

Some additional info for those who might consider flying the Boeing 787 Dreamliner:
About 168 Dreamliners, a quarter of the worldwide fleet, have at least one Rolls-Royce Trent 1000 “package C” engine. A year ago, in April 2018, the European Aviation Safety Agency ordered additional maintenance checks on the Rolls-Royce engines after it was found that durability issues with blades in the engine core were worse than first thought.    The FAA then issued a directive that restricted those planes from operating more than 140 minutes from an airport they can divert to in an emergency, down from 330 minutes. See, you’re fine.It's just not the 787 in South Carolina or the 737 in Washington state,  the Air Force has at least twice put on hold the delivery of its new KC-46 tanker (modified 767) due to "loose tools and foreign debris discovered in closed compartments of the plane".  The KC46 is assembled  at the Everett Washington plant  See Jon Talton's 4/12/2019 Seattle Times article.  When Boeing merged with McDonnell Douglas it was essential a take over by MD of Boeing, and along came the MD upper management with its "averse to risk and obsessed with cost cutting, weakening Boeing's commitment to making big investments in new products."  Furthermore "After the merger, there was a real battle over the future of the company, between the engineers and the finance and sales guys."  See LA Observed The company culture, quality and safety problems are directly the responsibility executive senior management and the BOD.  Will they be held accountable?  Sure hope so and replaced.As an engineering consultant brought in to fix manufacturing problems, I was sometimes confronted with a company who refused to write down how the product was built (in drawings and other documents).  The excuse was invariably: "it's a waste of time" or "we haven't gotten around to that yet."  Most times the real reason seemed to be inexperienced company management who viewed documentation as a liability issue, instead of a quality control problem.  When pressed the executives would cite urban legends about companies who went out of business making ladders, or  coffee scalding customers at McDonalds.  No company is perfect in this regard, but usually this was a red flag for  inexperienced or incompetent management.

According to the article: "In a performance review seen by The Times, a senior manager downgraded him for 'using email to express process violations,' instead of engaging “F2F,” or face to face."

As for Qatar Airways, they need to modify their thinking, too.  According to the article: "Ever since, Qatar has bought only Dreamliners built in Everett."  By bullying and intimidating Boeing executives in this way, Qatar Airways has only made the problem worse.Does anyone expect an FAA overseen by the Trump administration to take any of this seriously? The strongest resistance, as demonstrated by Qatar Airlines, will have to come from the airlines themselves for the foreseeable future.Letting the bean counters in your company be the dominate voice can lead to disaster.  Look at General Motors, they made cheaper and cheaper cars until they got to a point nobody was buying them.  
Getting on a airliner is a leap of faith similar to going under the knife for an operation.  You have to have faith that everyone involved has your survival as their primary goal.  Lose that faith and the hospital or the Airliner Manufacturer is out of business.South Carolina has long adhered to economic development based on the old Southern Strategy — “cheap land, cheap labor.”  Huge tax incentives and tough anti-union laws are what South Carolina regularly uses to induce companies like Boeing to build here. As evidence, look back at the State of the State speeches given by our past three governors. Before becoming U.N ambassador, former S.C. Gov. Nikki Haley never gave a State of the State address without emphasizing and praising the state’s strong anti-union position. The same was true of Mark Sanford, former S.C. congressman and governor. In addition, the state annually underfunds its state technical college system, designed to train skilled labor. Perhaps there is some truth to the adage, “You get what you pay for.”I recently had a long discussion with an American Airbus mechanic. He had previously worked on various Boeing aircraft for some decades. 

He told me that he will never work on a Boeing plane again. With an Airbus, all the parts fit together as specified. He stated that quality control is so poor with Boeing parts, that it was not unusual for him to have to modify them to make them fit, or just throw the part back and order a replacement.I am about to take a trip by plane on Monday, though I don't know what kind of plane it will be.  Doesn't matter. I have the same concern I've always had about flying, but more now. It feels basically like it's a gamble every time you fly. Articles like this one only increase that feeling, to where I wonder how frightening will future articles have to be to get me to cease flying, no matter how important the trip  might be. Articles like this are necessary, but what more will it take to overcome the urge to maximize profit, and the willingness to sacrifice safety?<>

One wonders if that same manager was out burying safety issues reported by subordinates 3 months ago.

Withdraw the 737 Max 8's type certificate; an airplane that needs a computer to be aerodynamically stable has no business hauling cargo or people. Allow existing planes to be fitted with smaller engines that would solve this problem.

The entire board of Boeing has to go, a clean sweep.  Every manager who ever quashed any debris report has to go.  

Halt all Boeing deliveries pending a 6 month review, interview, and inspection process at all Boeing plants-- with Boeing made to pay for it all.  Put Boeing on probationary manufacturing for another 6 months, with FAA inspectors present on every line, in every manager's meeting, and with full access to all manager's email.

Draw blood, make Boeing's recovery long, make Boeing's recovery painful, make Boeing's recovery an object lesson to shareholders that they are responsible for safety, and they bear the losses for failure.The problems I found during my years working at Boeing could almost always be traced to one thing. Brown nosers being raised to middle management.
One I remember vividly. I was working at Marine Systems building hydofoils at Renton. A manager was in a hurry to use an overhead crane so rather than waiting for a qualified operator he decided to direct the lift himself. He was raising the front strut and foil to the retract position. The trailing edge of the strut was polished to a .06" radius. He used a nylon strap to attach the strut to the crane, started the lift and then began chatting with someone and didn't direct the crane operator to stop the lift once the strut/foil was in the up position. The crane began to lift the ship out of its cradle and that tiny radius might as well have been a knife blade. The uplock hadn't yet been installed and when the strut cut through the strap it became a 10,000 lb. bell clapper. When it slammed into the bow it moved the 135' foot ship 8" in its cradle. Everyone working inside the ship was injured. It took every ambulance in Seattle and surrounding communities to transport the injured to local hospitals. The result for the manager? He was made a general supervisor and moved to second shift.As someone who's flown over a half million miles, I can say that I've never really been a nervous flier and, especially over the last 2 decades with the introduction of the 777 and thereafter, my confidence has only grown.  Until recently.  One of my few nervous experiences was on a Swissair MD-11 from JFK to Zurich, the same aircraft type that later resulted in a Swissair crash on the same route.  I remember experiencing very unusual vibrations and loud mechanical groans during the flight, the likes of which I had never experienced before.  The MD-11 was the successor for the DC-10, which had knowingly been designed with a faulty door latch that was traced to several fatal crashes and for which Douglas never recovered.  Douglas, of course, was bought by Boeing, and since those days I've always thought "this is a Boeing plane - the best of the best."  No longer.  Corporate greed has yet again crept into an industry that cannot afford greed to trump safety and reliability, yet this is precisely what we're seeing with the 737 Max incidents and now, possibly, the Dreamliner.  These sorts of episodes are the very worst that Boeing can face, and while no aircraft will ever be fool-proof, it seems that governments must now strengthen their oversight in order to guarantee the safety of the public.  What a shame that nearly 20 years of amazing safety achievements is being lost in one fell swoop. Corporate heads should ROLL!Disturbing. I had higher expectations for Boeing, a company that has always been at the forefront of aviation innovation. These seemingly small lapses in the interest of profitability appear to reflect a pattern of behavior at Boeing. I've never had reason to be concerned about safety when boarding a Boeing aircraft. I've always assumed Boeing builds great aircraft and that the safety of the people who use its products is a top concern. Perhaps it's time for me to rethink that assumption .A superb piece of investigative journalism.  I don’t see how the CEO of Boeing will be able to keep his job.900,000,000 in tax money,  break the union and deliver a less superior product.  Sounds like we got our money’s worth.Just another example of why labor unions are important.I wondered how Boeing installed a blatantly faulty and fatal software on the new 737. Who would design an algorithm that forces a plane down during takeoff? I believe most middle schoolers would find this a dangerous idea.
This article provides us with a provisional answer: Boeing’s safety culture has taken a nose dive as well, putting profit and shareholder value over quality.> and whether profits sometimes trumped safety.

Of course profits trump safety. That's a feature of capitalism, not a bug. This is why we have regulators, and why regulatory capture is so dangerous.

Also, non union shop, so again, a feature and not a bug.I have seen similar apathy in 80s Soviet Union. A nation in decline is one where citizens no longer believe their country is on an upward trajectory. It doesn't matter how many flat screens and other luxuries people have. If they no longer believe that their quality of life can exceed that of their parents then they no longer will have a common purpose with their fellow citizens. Falling instead into polarized factions that rather than work towards a goal spend their time looking for someone to blame.While the design of the airplane and the software for flying it need to be examined and fixed; the more fundamental issue is that the management of Boeing requires radical overhaul, their behavior amounts to criminal negligence. It is unconscionable that we have not heard of any investigation of the decision-making process at Boeing, and that management is treated as if they were above criticism.When plans for manufacturing in South Carolina were announced, Boeing's experienced unionized workers in Seattle predicted this outcome.  And here we are.  Of course the executives who decided it are all comfortably retired or have "moved on" with nice payouts.Airbus is building a US based airplane factory near Mobile Alabama.  Alabama is a non-union state and Mobile is known for its lovely setting, but not for skilled workers.  An Alabama skilled worker exception might be Huntsville Alabama, but it is in northern Alabama.

So those of you who are looking to Airbus as a quality alternative to Boeing may need to reconsider.  On the other hand, Airbus has an advantage of learning from Boeing's self-inflicted production problems in South Carolina.This is why these companies come to right-to-work states in the South. Foreign auto companies do the same thing. The worker have no rights and are forced to do whatever they are told as a condition of employment. Remember the controversy during the Obama Administration over Boeing threatening their Union workers with shifting work to that plant?Building the planes in a 'right to work' state wasn't done because the workforce was far superior to union states; it was done because it was cheaper. 

As it has become more and more clear, corporate Boeing is more concerned with the bottom line than the safety and reliability of their product. 

Automobile companies have recalls; Boeing has the FAA.You don’t think software engineering at Boeing is like this too?

(plane*process*time*cost*order number) * (number of software systems) - MCAS

I think Boeing is great and an aviation giant! What’s wrong is not really Boeing but, an ethos where safety and quality are two separate things. Washington is a lot like SC plant. It’s the fear!The trouble with Boeing is a corporate mentality in which the bottom line is the only thing that matters. Bill Boeing, and all all the rest who made Boeing the leader in quality aircraft, and who gave us the 707, are turning over in their graves. It’s been profits above all else since the suits decided to move the headquarters out of Seattle, away from the production lines and the unions. I don’t think Alvin “Tex” Johnson, Boeing’s legendary test pilot, would be tempted to roll the 787 Dreamliner while flying low over Lake Washington in a repeat of the stunt he did 64 years ago this August in the prototype 707.Move to a union busting state where you can hire a cheap labor force in pursuit of maximization of shareholder profit. Self-regulate for the government agency that is supposed to provide oversight and consumer safety.

Modern business playbook USA.Eliminating a 100 quality inspectors from a plant that clearly has a problem with shoddy manufacturing practices sounds like a sick joke.  

Does Boeing have a Board of Directors?  Of course. What do they do when they meet?  Only count the money?

The Board needs to bring in safety oriented top management including veterans of the NSTB, who actually know safety.  Wouldn't say the same of the FAA. which appears to have failed to do much about obvious problems, presumably because of what ought to be called "industry deference".

There's time to save Boeing, but not if the Board ignores its responsibilities to the flying public.  Stockholders too because they will lose big time if Boeing fails to punish negligent management and institute a new "zero defects" safety culture.Not at all surprising if you have ever worked in manufacturing,and really any workplace. Boeing execs may believe what they're saying, as no one wants to tell the boss that anything is less than expected. Unless the culture supports safety by rewarding those who speak up, however, rarely the case, this is the outcome.Answer to the last sentence—a qualified yes. I don’t believe Boeing wants to kill passengers, rather the think ic cost of doing business terms. A little scary when aircraft are involved.The most troubling statement in this quite troubling story comes at the very end:. "Starting this year, Boeing is producing 14 Dreamliners a month, split between North Charleston and Everett, up from the previous 12. At the same time, Boeing said it was eliminating about a hundred quality control positions in North Charleston.". How can this be a reasonable idea?Boeing was looking to make its shareholders happy by scrimping on quality and cutting regulatory corners.  How happy are its shareholders now?After merging with McDonnell-Douglas and moving corporate headquarters far from any production site management has managed to invert an old classic boast.  "If it's Boeing I'm not going."I guess we now need Kayak to include in their on-line booking system whether the 787 in a flight was made in Everett or Charleston.

We cannot depend on either Boeing or the FAA.

Boycott Boeing.What type of people are being hired in sc for basic production jobs?Boeing used Trump's tariffs to try to kill Bombardier's C-Series, a very well designed and produced smaller jet that for which Boeing had no competitive model. They almost succeeded but in doing so forced Bombardier to give half of the project to Airbus. Boeing needs to re-examine its entire mode of operation, from production and design to dealing with competition.What industry is left unplagued by the board room’s rush and lust for profits combined with an unbridled desperation to surpass their competitor’s successes? The difference here is that Boeing’s coin in commerce is gambling with the safe transport of human beings between two destinations, and eternity shouldn’t be a mere layover in corporate profits to be but a factored in calculus of payouts should something be overlooked on the steamroller rush to lucrative payoffs. 

One simple oversight is enough to kill. Hundreds. 

There is no reason Boeing should have been left to monitor its own oversight. The zealous delusion that the free market will ensure ironclad methods of careful manufacture have shown us what the results of that strategy have yielded...death and fear of flying.  

The damage to their brand may well spell the beginning of Boeing’s demise. 

My Dreamliner dreams have suddenly moved into the medium of water. I believe I will translate that travel into ocean-liner instead for a time.I'm not sure why we are surprised here. Al Jazeera a few years ago did a piece on the issues in South Carolina and the lax safety approach that Boeing was having towards the 787. There were reports of people being high on pot assembling planes and staff being terminated because they were reporting violations.Boeing's corner cutting is going to cost them a lot more than it saves.So, let me get this straight -  when I fly on a 787 in August I'm supposed to ask if it was built in Washington State or South Carolina, right?

As a frequent flyer, I find this article beyond terrifying. This is what happens not only when corporate greed takes over common sense but also when you build a plant in a non-union area where they don't have an educated population to boot.Seems like "move fast and break things" is the corporate mantra for all companies now. Profit, profit, profit. The business of America is business, says Republicans. The executives don't fly on these planes,anyway, so why should they care about people in Indonesia and Eritrea?I have visited the Boeing factory in SC and flown on the Dreamliner more than a dozen times. It is hands down the best plane I have ever flown on and my experience at the factory was not at all akin to the stories described in this article.The only reason South Carolina got the Boeing plant to start with was to avoid paying the union wages they pay in the Pacific Northwest. They've fought hard to keep the plant non-unionized. Boeing is no different than any other American corporation beholden only to their shareholders. That means that they'll cut costs wherever they can. There is a reason that products, appliances, etc. are such poor quality these days and are not built to last. It's because these things were built with an eye toward the bottom line.

Why would it be different just because they're building airplanes?Our American dream, turned nightmare. But of course Boeing is only the tip of an ice berg. Our corporate lust for mass-profits yielded at the expense of their customers, employees and the public is apparent everywhere you look. This is a case of global non-diligence and indifference to anything but profit.America as an "empire", as a "nation" is on its way down. I absolutely do not expect this sort of stuff from a "premier" US corporation. In the late 80s I worked with a guy who had come from Boeing and I admired his work ethic. My former wife's father worked at that building in Seattle which has all its windows black. He was an inspector--- I think he worked on cruise missiles for he wouldn't say what he "really" did... only would say he is quality control--- and I can categorically say that everything would be perfect after he was done with it. However, this was in the late 80s. Now, I wonder what's really going on there?
This idea that companies can "keep on growing" is a fallacy. There will come a plateau after which a company cannot be more profitable per item, simply there is nothing more left to improve upon unless you compromise quality and THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT WE ARE SEEING.
People are going to end up dead... if this keeps on going. I, and my family, plan to fly AIR BUS for the next 20 years.William Boeing must be spinning in his grave at what has become of his namesake. Boeing has a deservedly proud history that is rapidly being squandered by the current state of American business.  While there are numerous places to point fingers, including a generally degraded work ethic across industries, our MBA culture of recent decades, where ethics are a quaint notion of the past and profits (and executive compensation) are paramount, has contributed mightily to this debacle.  There is also the absurd notion that an MBA is an interchangeable commodity, who, with out actual industry specific knowledge, can manage anything...and we’ve seen time and again that it’s just not true. The HQ move from Seattle was a dreadful mistake as well.

We need Boeing (there can’t be just Airbus making commercial planes, which have their own issues) but they desperately need to get their act together. The FAA also needs to get brutal in examinations and fining for the egregious quality issues described in this article.Metal shavings on or near wiring is a recipe for disaster. It creates an equation of certainty that at some point something will go wrong. It seems to me that Boeing’s focus on non-union hiring and it’s implied policies of hiding its mistakes are clearly endangering the flying public. Boeing has some serious soul searching to do. Our government has some serious regulating to do.The problems with the 737 Max-8 demonstrate that something has changed a Boeing.  Reports of shortcuts and shoddy production work at the SC plant should be taken seriously.If it's Boeing I ain't going is the new slogan. Its sad to see what happens when greed takes over a great company.... and instead of addressing this lack of regulation the President’s solution is: to tariff Airbus so Boeing will have less domestic competition and less incentive to improve.

If you want to see what lack of competition and proper regulation does, have a look at the products that came out of Illushyn and Antonov in the 70’s and 80’s.I hope the politicians in Washington State are happy to see that their years and years of tax break for Boeing has materialized into a company that sells shoddy products and lies about them. Meanwhile, nothing is being done after the Seattle Times reported that lead at the level exceeding the Chicago standard is found in almost all of Seattle’s public schools.I guess it's time for the CEO to step down. "You can delegate authority but not responsibility" - i.e.  the chief has failed, and should be replaced.Regulation and oversight might help... regulation, schmegulation. One of my professors extolled the virtues of the cost benefit analysis. Milton Friedman did too. So, you lose a few people but transport the many and make a profit. It’s a small price to pay. I always hoped that Mr. Friedman and that professor would be the ones to pay the cost but it’s always the workers and the powerless.Chewing gum holding together door trim?  Lack of trained workers but hostility to unions an excuse for bringing in qualified employees?  I think I’ll routinely inquire what aircraft are being used for any flights I take in the future.  787s and 737 Max aircraft are history.The hurry-up production, the never-mind-the-mistakes attitudes, the cheapest options always chosen:  these are the basic elements underlying business in the US today.  From food manufacture to airplanes, from pet products to home building, the cheapest way is the only way that things get done.  Another result of greed, short-term IBGYBG planning from the executive class feeding their billionaire and investor-class owners.  The market roars on, leaving human, animal, and earth itself as debris in a warming and filthy ocean.  How will they stop?  What regulations will slow them?  None in a nation and world they've bought and brought to its knees before their rule.  This will have no good end.So, aren't we happy with deregulation, and gifting airlines with "self-inspection" anymore?  We can't have inspectors and safety too!  Self-inspection trims the F.A.A. budget appreciably.  The staggering amount of money not pouring into tax coffers translates to cutting corners and trimming budgets everywhere, so .... 

Look at it this way: the Trump Administration has improved our prayer lives significantly.  We've got to find reassurance wherever we can, because we have increasing cause for anxiety on a daily basis: at least until January 20, 2021. The new president will probably go through a stock box of Sharpies, undoing by executive order what the precedent loose cannon did with glee.  

Don't forget to stop at the flight insurance kiosks, will you.The GOP and Libertarians have achieved their goal. No need for laws, regulations , oversight,small government and no interference by government 
We can have planes falling from the skies and it’s ok.  It’s quite alright not to have quality controls or even training for pilots.  Have to save money at all costs. Capitalism is always about money and whose pockets is it going in, not quality not even simple common sense,
As long as this dismantling of common sense the horrors will continue because it’s about money not quality.This hits close to home especially given the timing. This past Tuesday, one of my best friends and her husband made an emergency landing in Paris en route to Rome. The reason? Their 787 Dreamliner had nosedived and couldn’t keep altitude. The pilots were able to stabilize the plane eventually, but Boeing ordered that the plane be grounded as soon as possible. What would have happened if the plane had malfunctioned over water as it flew from Boston?The plant in SC employs thousands - there are bound to be external complaints from former employees. Certainly enough for the NYT to write piece questioning Boeing policies at a time like this.

Unfortunately, we're only treated to one side of the story. I've found that, almost always in stories like this, we don't see the whole picture. 

I've worked in aerospace for 14 years including 6 at Boeing South Carolina. I have no issues putting myself or my family in a 787.Commitment to quality and safety has to be at all levels. Sounds like Boeing has issues at every level. If their executives are eliminating quality positions, that is unacceptable. If their quality people are being intimidated and harassed my supervisors and middle managers, that is unacceptable. If the line workers are that careless, clueless, and sloppy, that is unacceptable and their is no excuse fore them. None. Sounds like a stand down in this facility is needed until every level gets its act together. Shame on the ones too clueless and lazy to do their jobs responsibly. Kudos to the ones who tried to bring these problems forward. Even the good workers seem willing to look the other way on the line, since typically they know who the shoddy workers are. So, they need to speak up as well. 

Boeing, get your act together. I hope NASA would not accept any space craft hardware from this plant until root causes are fixed. I realize non is slated their now, but the siren song of lower cost labor is hard to resist. Looks like that experiment is not working at Boeing even though other southern non union plants seem fully capable of manufacturing other complex products with excellent quality.

To be fair I knew of union workers in the north who were responsible for shoddy quality as well!The problem here isn't that mistakes are made, or that individual workers do a poor job. The problems are 1) over-commitment to an accelerated delivery schedule in order to make a sale, 2) neglect of quality control for the sake of speed, and 3) pressure on workers to conceal the truth.

Remember the O-rings on the Challenger?

The last, unfortunately, is the only thing that can be addressed preemptively through public policy and law. For the rest, the flying public -- and, in the end, Boeing's shareholders, who nominally are the company's main concern -- *must* rely on the consciences of salespeople, engineers, and line workers. And with so many normative behaviors under attack, what chance has conscience?It seems that Boeing makes pretty good planes, not really professional grade, but nice to look at. 

What a sad commentary on how greed, ignorance, and mis-management can destroy what was once a respected icon of manufacturing.My confidence  in flying is hovering to new lows. Having to Google search or call the airline  to ask what airplane one is scheduled to fly on is burdensome. It's even more stressful when you are flying with your children.

This is all about profit over people. This needs to stop.

Do the right thing, Boeing. Your reputation is being tarnished. When I was growing up in the 80's, the Boeing name conjured up images and feelings of American pride. Not anymore.Things might change over time but the Toulouse sites traditionally leave an extremely clean and well organized impression. Airbus manufacturing philosophy is, btw, more oriented towards teams, responsible for a specific airframe, similar to the Volvo philosophy.Joseph Clayton, a technician at the North Charleston plant, one of two facilities where the Dreamliner is built, said he routinely found debris dangerously close to wiring beneath cockpits.

Given the option of either picking up the debris or blowing a whistle, what’s currently the fashionable thing to do?

Maybe robots are the way to go for everything.Anti-Union, new plant, new workers, shoddy management practices.  What could go wrong?  Who knew?

Next time I fly, I'll try Airbus.  European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company, is a European multinational aerospace corporation, registered in the Netherlands and trading shares in France, Germany and Spain.

I try to buy American, fly American, but with this history revealed.... never again will I fly Boing.  Besides, they don't pay taxes at the proper level for an American corporation.What is happening at Boeing, the lack of quality control, punishment of workers who have the decency to bring safety issues to management, is happening in corporations across the US.

I do not understand why Boeing is still in business. Why haven't they been hit with a pile of wrongful death suits? Boeing deliberately put unsafe airplane into the market. Where are the product liability suits? 

Clearly Boeing only understands profit. The executives will never change unless it becomes cost efficient to put safe, well built airplanes into the market.I'd go back in history to point to the McDonnell Douglas merger in 1997 as the key point that began to transition Boeing's management mindset from an engineering and safety-focused mindset to one over pleasing shareholders and focusing on the bottom-line over all else.  Before the merger, these sorts of issues with shoddy quality in aircraft were common with MD planes (see: DC-10).  The old Boeing guys lost their stature as the MD guys took over the top management.  I'd say that this was highlighted especially when Alan Mulally (one of the old Boeing people) was passed over for the CEO job twice, which then led him to move to Ford instead.Profits are the bottom line of Boeing's endeavors.  Moving to a right to work state with one of the poorest education systems in the country made sense.  The gov't of S. Carolina provided Boeing with the tax incentives and expenditures they were looking for.  But Boeing's reckless efforts to punish employees for telling them what they didn't want to hear puts the blame for poor performance on Boeing's corporate management.It looks as though Boeing’s drive to punish the Machinist Union for its strike in 2011, by opening a non union plant using lower skilled workers in a right to work state, is backfiring on them. 
It’s a sad state of affairs when a company seeks to throw away its well earned worldwide reputation and their skilled workforce all in pursuit of maximum profits for their shareholders.Ladders left in the tails of aircraft, safety lapses, shoddy work, and planes that behave like missiles: this is what you get when you vote for small government. 

The only way out of this is to vote next year, and to vote for candidates who are serious about governing for the benefit of the people (not the corporations).Boeing went to South Carolina to have a non-union shop. This is what happens when employees fear reprisal. It’s also fair to say that a management that fears unions is cutting corners elsewhere. It’s time for the Boeing board to clean house. It’s also time to require publicly traded companies to have employee and consumer representatives on boards of director as they do in many European countries. We also need card check and laws to make it easier for employees to organize. The Trump administration has been doing everything possible to destroy unions and make organizing harder. It’s time for new policies to empower workers and require safe products.BA has major management issues. Short term profitability trumps long term corporate health, affecting both design and manufacturing. 

Technologically, Boeing is way behind the curve. The so-called MCAS is a hack for a fix for a patch. The key word in MCAS is "augmentation". The industry standard is (well, should be) a fully integrated fly-by-wire system where all sensor and flight data are constantly cross-validated, not an "augmentation" add-on that interferes with pilot and auto-pilot. Chances are, the software in your car is way more modern than in your plane. 

If a single faulty sensor can bring down a plane, the design is fundamentally broken. There is no quick fix, they need to go back to the drawing board, but all indications are they'll choose to add yet another patch. 

In a variation of a well known theme:
"In the present crisis, Management is not the solution to the    problem, Management is the problem"Boeing is proof that unregulated capitalism is a strategic threat to America. 

In Boeing's quest for greater profits (aka higher share price) set in place a strategy for moving their headquarters to Chicago. By dispersing production around the Country, Boeing leadership could gain greater Congressional and Senatorial support for more government sales, and with their "elite management" distanced from their Seattle workforce, harsher management could be unleashed on those "selfish Seattle engineers and blue-collars" that held down leadership's salaries and bonuses. 

You can trace this strategy to the acquisition of a nearing bankruptcy MacDonald Douglas when MD's failed management team joined Boeing and negatively infected the highly functional, generationally based Seattle attitude about aircraft quality.Leaving debris within an airplane sounds scarily similar to when I discovered a soda can, rags and fast food garbage behind the walls of two of the homes I've lived in over the years. Out of sight out of mind may have no consequence for a private home, but a commercial aircraft?I hope readers understand that there are major outstanding issues between Boeing and the unions in South Carolina.

This is a common tactic with unions that are currently in or expecting negotiations. They raise safety issues that are often non-existent or overblown to gain the upper hand in negotiations.

Al-Jezeera once ran an “exposé” about Boeing’s Carolina plant, and it was universally dismissed as so much rubbish.It's time to ensure that all Americans enjoy the basic protections afforded by unions, regardless of the state in which they work and reside.  Corporations abuse these differences between states for their own benefit, and it's always the worker and the general public (here the flying public) who lose.   Boeing workers in Washington knew exactly what was going to happen when this crucial work moved to a non-union state with very little aerospace infrastructure in place.   They've been proven correct time and again.   I'm all for building up the economy and the education level of the workforce in South Carolina, but an investment like that takes a lot of time and money.  Boeing wanted it all too fast, and for too cheap.It would be interesting to know of this lax oversight is partly a result of management deciding to move its headquarters from  Seattle to Chicago.

I always thought that this was an ill-conceived move.We try to make sure our family is aware of Boeing’s management/quality/safety issues as with airlines that put safety behind profits. Lost a family member years ago in a mid air and friends in air crashes. We travel to Europe and will avoid the Dreamliner and 737 supremacy. Better yet avoid, just stay off Boeing planes.Wow. This is too scary. I travel on 787s several times a year. Is there a way to determine which ones are built in which plant? I've balked before boarding before (other reasons), and I'd do it again, if I knew that the 787 was built in North Charleston.This is why 'small government' doesn't work for anyone except CEOs and stock holders. For our country to work for all the people, we must have oversight through federal agencies.  Plus unions protect the whistleblower workers who see more than the bottom line.This is all very discouraging. The ultimate source of these repeated problems is the Boardroom. When failure becomes unacceptable, then the denial of failure becomes the norm. And finally, failure becomes the product. Welcome to the “New And Improved” Boeing. It’s founders are weeping in their graves.It is starting to sound like competition in t he airplane industry may not be in the best interest of the flying public.Until Boeing re-establishes itself as a hallmark of safety this wary traveler will be taking Airbus TYVM.

Vote with your dollar people - it’s the only thing the suits at Boeing will understand.Sounds like the RV assembly industry.  Workers who are pressured for high production numbers, workers who may have persistent drug issues, and in this instance, a union trying to get in that tries to give a black eye to the company they want to negotiate with, with no guarantee for increased quality.

Couple that with quarter-to-quarter pressure to show increases in stock price, and the logical extension of this would be a drive to the cheapest material and labor costs.

How far will this drive for downward costs go?

Coming soon to a stationary store near you:  Boeing Paper, certified by the FAA, where you build your own airplane.Employees who make legitimate complaints regarding safety violations need legal protection. Members of Congress should consider such legislation.

The article concludes: "In North Charleston, the pace of production has quickened. Starting this year, Boeing is producing 14 Dreamliners a month, split between North Charleston and Everett, up from the previous 12. At the same time, Boeing said it was eliminating about a hundred quality control positions in North Charleston."These fantastic NYT articles about Boeing's ills are a proof of the failure of right wing ideology.  Republicans advocate lack of regulation and oversight because they claim it stifles business. 

As is proven time and time again, neither the market nor corporations will adequately regulate themselves.  The company is cutting corners for profit with little over government oversight.  People have died as a result.  

The failure of the right wing ideology is also evident in this article which highlights Boeings inability to hire qualified workers in North Carolina.  North Carolina ranks 40th in the quality of it's public education system.  The consequences of failing to invest in the public education system becomes more evident every day. No amount of MAGA rallies will change that reality.Makes you wonder if the 737 Max issue goes beyond flight control system design failure. What if there is production issue as well at the Max production facilities? How about flight control systems design issues on the Dreamliner?This is the kind of story where the NY Times really does a great job.  An in depth dive into a non-political issue, with great photos and clear explanations.  Good job team !The Boeing company is a direct reflection now of the age of American democracy.  A once great & marvelous thing that is now going down in flames as a direct result of greed and corruption. Capitalism without regulation = a rotting society. 

In the stock markets they use the old saying that past results are not a predictor of future performance. You can now say that without a doubt about the Boeing Company (with an enviable past record of safety) which they have now squandered for short term financial results. I will never (ever) fly a Boeing 737 Max. Read the research - the plane was jury rigged with software to compensate for faulty hardware & bad aerodynamics."...and pressure to not report violations."  Again we see where having a union presence and support gives strength to the validity the employee's discoveries of defects and cover-ups.
One person is no match for a corporation, but with their brothers and sisters standing shoulder to shoulder their voice can be heard and demanded to be heard.
The "team members" concept corrupts without an objective, fair and balanced point of view that unions provide.While management clearly has significant issues, the matter of debris and such being left in planes, in all sorts of areas, is appears to be that this is solely due to the uncaring and attention of the assemblers.

Their work ethic seems to be sorely lacking  there.   

It seems to me that no matter how hard management pushes, there is no reason on earth why any employee can't, wouldn't, or couldn't properly clean up.   

Grade schoolers learn that!.Just so thrilled to read this considering my wife and I will be on a 787 to Ireland in July.
Hopefully, it is one made in Washington not South Carolina.A few years ago, we refrained from buying products and items labeled "Made In China"...not any more.

Soon, the world will view "Made in the USA" with understandable suspicion.  

This relentless drive to cut corners, to reduce costs and to maximize corporate profits must be tackled for the long term good of our country.These reports are not new. Al Jazeera had a documentary a few years ago detailing manufacturing issues at the SC plant. Shoddy workmanship, rampant drug use. I’m surprised (actually, on second thought, probably not) that this is only surfacing on American news right now.Boeing:  You can do better than this. The company’s future depends on it, and so do the lives of the passengers.If the employees that built the Dreamliner won’t fly in it, the rest of us shouldn’t either.Crony capitalism, where Wall Street guts companies to maximize profits. Boeing moved its headquarters to escape being an engineering based company to that based on short term Wall Street quarterly profits. It also moved manufacturing to escape unions, where workers had a say.

“Boeing said it was working to address the issue with the Air Force, which resumed deliveries this month.”
Boeing still can count on profiteering from our increased military spending, not to keep us safe, to make a lot of money for the elite.Made in the USA, huh? Of all industries that require a persistent level of attention to quality and safety, the commercial jet manufacturing sector is among the top tier. Not only is there a professional responsibility, but many would argue a moral duty as well. I imagine that the vast majority of Boeing employees took their roles very seriously, but it only takes a few “slackers” to put the public—and the company—at risk.The point of moving production to South Carolina was to do things cheaper, using cheaper labor than in Washington.  

Looks like Boeing got what they paid for, and it is the flying public who will suffer for it.  

Our most popular commercial aircraft as well as our newest military fighter jets are both falling out of the sky in 2019.  Not a good look, AmericaInsightful and terrifying article. So disheartening to see a culture of cover up on major safety issues...

Major repercussions only against workers exposing  these issues not on management and the Board"collective concerns involving two crucial Boeing planes point to potentially systemic problems..."

And the root cause is... upper management and the CEO, of course.Boeing cannot increase profits with slick ads this time. In fact, they just may have begun their demise.